Eric: And to help us make sense of it all, we have none other than Mr. Eddie Kimani, who is not only an actor, he is a journalist, a mental health campaigner, and a media consultant. Eddie, karibu sana. Glad to be here. Yeah, yeah, good, good to see you. We're happy to have you. You know, the first time I met Eddie, I don't know if you can remember. I met you at a friend's house, the late David O in Westlands, just down the road at Sohos, and I was asking you about a mutual friend who was in the room. His name was David Charles Munge. And we were wondering where he is. So if Charles is listening, hit us up, Charles. So Eddie, you know, Yeah, I met him, but he doesn't know he met me. Me I met him on my screen. All right. I would see him on TV. All right. Nice to meet you now one on one. Yes. Pleasure. Pleasure. Yeah, so, so Eddie, um, just before you tell us who Eddie is to the Spice family. Um, you know, mental health illnesses are conversations a lot of us don't have, especially as men. All right? And before we go all the way there, this is the lovely Barbara Mbaka. The Duchess of Ikolomani. Oh, the Duchess of Ikolomani. Duchess of Ikolomani. Of Ikolomani. And the gentleman to my right is Emmanuel. Duke of. No. One of one of the Duke of Luandeti. Yes, yes. But his name is Emmanuel Kisiani and obviously mine is Eric Mundi. We make up the adults in the room, a fantastic show that brings to the fore all very difficult conversations that a lot of Kenyans are not. Much needed conversation, I must say. Absolutely. Out of the box thinking and uh glad to have such a show actually. Absolutely. And the fourth person that makes the team is a person who normally sits here. Uh, he's and her name is Ms. Uzi. Yeah, so it's the four of us plus you, we make the adults in the room. So karibu sana. Thank you. So, who is Eddie Kimani? Well, I find it hard sometimes to to just pin it down on one thing, especially at this juncture in my life. And um, Eddie Kimani is a 41-year-old uh, born and raised in Nakuru. And um, right now just trying to do his thing, trying to be part of this amazing jigsaw that life is all about. Yes. And um, he's just trying to make the world a better place by taking a step a step at a time. Either in my own life and together holding hands with many other people as we look at how to put this puzzle of life together. Yeah, that's where that's where I am right now. That's who Eddie is right now. As you'd mentioned, yes, a mental health campaigner. Mhm. Found myself in that space after sharing a story about my life and a dark season that I went through. And um, that's where it all brought me to this point and um, I'm really honored to have been invited here to engage in this very, very, very important conversation and that is mental health and more importantly to the men. Mhm. Karibu sana. Asante. Yeah, just uh, just to uh, start it off uh, for someone who's, cuz I I came across mental health on a serious note when I read about uh, there's a guy called Charlamagne the God. He calls himself Charlamagne the God. He's a presenter with the Breakfast Club. And uh, he talked he he he wrote a book called Shook One. So he he he in that book From the US, right? Yeah, from the US. He's a host of the Breakfast Club. A very big personality. Yes, a very big personality, which made it interesting because this very huge personality uh, came out and started talking about the struggle he's going through. Cuz sometimes you check this uh, guys out on on Instagram and uh, you know, the glam. You're like, ah, this guy um, you know, he has it all together. So that is my my first serious encounter with the topic of mental health. So um, I I don't know if you can uh, very quickly explain to someone who's never come across this two words together. Um, especially in the light of cuz cuz I remember when I was growing up, um, you know, you'd say this guy is mental, you know, the guys who'd walk, you know, dirty clothes in the street, the dog would start barking. That Yeah, I mean. That would be. So little did we know that we're just ingraining this mindset of the understanding of that that simple word. So to a layman, how would you uh, describe uh, those two words together, mental health? Mental health, and as speaking as a mental health campaigner, I would like also to just clarify, I'm not a professional. I'm not a Absolutely. It's just I'm coming from the point of a lived experience. And that's one thing I'd always like establishing. Mental health, of course, mental health is when you have all your faculties together. You've got good health, you've got everything. And the opposite of that, of course, is mental illness. And as uh, World Health Organization has aptly put it, there's no health without mental health. So basically mental health is what really puts together our our being. Our state of being. Our state of being, our our focus, you know, our general health. And um, it's quite sad that that has really been uh, thrown into various uh, understandings, especially over the years. And I'm glad this conversation is happening right now because it's happening at a time when people need to understand a little bit more what it is when I say I want to go and see a specialist. I want to go and see a psychiatrist. I want to go and see a psychologist without being judged and without being looked at as there's something really wrong or you're not worthy of being part of the society. And as you said, Or it's not our thing. We don't do that. It's not our thing. So mental health definitely is what I would look at what we we need we deserve to have it at all times. Unfortunately, as you also mentioned in your intro, mental health uh, or illness comes about when you do not have your when or you're depressed, you've got anxiety. It goes there about two 200 um, levels of of symptoms of uh, mental illnesses. And depression and anxiety are the key are the ones that we get to experience uh, mostly. Schizophrenia is part of it, of course. Um, all this part of uh, what mental illness is all about. But uh, mental health, yes, that is just being in the right state of mind. So mental health, uh, Barbara, before you ask, is not uh, is it a destination or it's um, it's a journey that you'll be on continuously? It's a journey. Once you are aware that this is what you're supposed the status where you're supposed to be at in your life, it's a continuous journey. And it's it's really a great time to be discussing this cuz it had not been part of the conversation as we looked after our physical health. We went to the gym. We go to the gym and take care of our physical health. Unfortunately, we grew up in an environment where we are taught wash your hands before you eat. Wash your hands when you leave the toilet. Mhm. But we're not taught how to take care of our mental fitness, our mental hygiene. Yes. So we are now in a space where we're trying to embrace and understand mental health. Yeah, it it might have been, of course, psychologists and psychiatrists have been there for eons, uh, of course, delivering the best service possible. And uh, now is when now us as common, us people who it's affecting are beginning to understand the importance of it. Yes. I like what you've said, we've been taught how to clean our hands. We've been told to do this after going to the toilet, going to the bathroom or before we eat. So, how are you doing or are you playing a role in teaching men, especially since we're talking about mental health? What role are you playing in the society right now? Because you said you're a campaigner. So what what are you teaching us or what are you telling these men about mental health? Exactly. Well, I would not be sitting here if I had not gone through the dark season. I like calling it a dark season cuz I think life is all about phases. And my phase at that time was a very dark one, which is between 20 late 2014 towards 2017. Where a lot of things around my life collapsed, my marriage, myself, I got into depression, I got sick. Um, I got into debt. Um, my job came to an end. So it was a combination of many things that contributed to that very dark season. So it happened to be that I was asked to talk about my life at Engage Kenya. Mhm. Which is a very important platform when it comes to us as human beings sharing our stories. And I really applaud the Engage platform because it's a unique um, event that brings together people to share their stories. Now, of course, after that talk, I found myself in this space that I needed to do something about what I learned. How do I use these lessons? How do I make my journey worthwhile? Because right now That's three years now. The three years now. After now I I shared my life uh, in that uh, video. It's on it's on YouTube. I have seen it. Yes, yeah. So that is what initiated me into this space where I thought, hey, wait a minute. You learned so many lessons because after the talk, I had so many messages, texts, WhatsApp, Facebook, and any other platform I would imagine, people asking me or congratulating me, but more importantly, reaching out. Mhm. Hey, Eddie, I'm going through. By the way, my story is not unique. Mhm. It it is not unique in any particular way. It's just that I was given I was given a platform. Yeah, I was given people do it's just that I was given a a higher platform to share my life. So what happened is that the feedback I got got me into this space now where people were reaching out for help. Mhm. Eddie, I'm going through this. I'm going through the same situation you're going through. And I need help. So it got me thinking, why don't I purpose and be deliberate about sharing my lessons and become a lived experience um, um, example and share my story at the same time making that one man out there who's given up, who's lost hope, realize that it's possible to actually pick up yourself again when you fall down. All right, Eddie, you're gonna share more when we come back and one of the things that I want you to do uh, in in in a in summary is you're gonna just share your story a little. Uh, so that uh, people can just get snippets of uh, you know, that amazing story. 94.4 Spice FM. We are in studio with our special guest Eddie Kimani. We're talking about men and mental health. I went there with my own ideas of what it was and how I think I should change. Of course, I went through a myriad of ideas and of course, it didn't turn out that way. So I had to now, of course, embrace the fact that I've gotten into this new environment, so I have to I won't quit because it was not as easy from the beginning. So anyway, um, I had to leave my family in uh, Nairobi as I went to settle there. Unfortunately, they moved they didn't move with me. And then I got into the the system. Setting up the the department and uh, getting to learn politics from the ground. And you know, that is uh, being a county politics in Nakuru is uh, a hotbed. Yes. Yeah, so it was really baptism by fire for me. Yeah, but um, gratefully enough, I managed to do that. I set up the office, had a nice team around me. We did what we had to do for the county government and the governor at the time. Uh, who who who really gave me a lot of support, especially in setting it up and um, just making it easy for me because he knew I was coming from this different type of environment. But back on to my life here now, it it meant a lot of adjusting. You know, you're no longer on people's lips. You're no longer in front of people in their TV screens. You're no longer on people's So they forget you very fast. Yeah, you're no longer on people's minds when they want to do as you say, like the voiceovers, cuz I I doubled on that a lot. Yes. As a side side gig. So a lot of things started falling off. My pay was not the same as I I was getting at um, at the station I was at at the time. And then here I am with a new challenge in front of me. So I made decisions which did not go the right way with me. Number one, um, I I failed my marriage, uh, being away from my family. Um, I I got into debt because I was trying to supplement, you know, you've been getting this kind of amount of money here. Your income is not anything. So you're looking at, okay, let me try and do other things. So in the middle of that, you've gotten into loans, you've gotten to circle and of course, working in public service, getting access to such facilities was was very easy. But I made wrong decisions, wrong business decisions. That's why I got into debt. Yes. I got distracted. That's why my marriage collapsed. I let down my father who'd uh, responsibilities being away. So it was really a collapse of everything. And then at the middle of it, I got uh, something called Bell's Palsy. Which is a nervous uh, issue that affects um, your one side of your face. So one side of my face is currently not as So then so all that all that put together Everything just came crashing. It was just it just came tumbling down. Yeah, so I just I don't know how I got through it. But I think one is of course by the grace of God. Two, having one or two friends who urged me on. Three, um, the hope that I've come this far and and I haven't understand how I got into this mess. And then four, was going back home. Which was the decision I made to sort of encompass everything and just put it all out there for me of how bad things were. And I read you said you went back home and you told your mother that you need her to support you. I told her I told her I failed. I realized at that time I needed to be very honest with myself with the things that I had done. And I'd done them either out of um, ignorance, um, of course, ego was part of it. Yes. Um, again, making wrong decisions was like any in any other man would do. You'd make wrong decisions from time to time in life. But I didn't have the tools to to to deal with. I did not even know there were tools to deal with that. So I just wallowed in my space that I got into. 94.4 Spice FM, the conversation is just beginning. We are in studio with Eddie Kimani and we're discussing men and

Eric: until health. This one is a big one. It is a big one. It is a big one. You cannot miss this one. And you cannot consume this information. alone, man. And uh, before we get back to our conversation, I want to share something which is equally big. Startimes. offers you a unique festive offer and uh, it is Christmas plus with Startimes. Startimes wamesema Christmas will not end in December. They'll push it all the way to January. If you pay your monthly subscription right now, you get two weeks free on a higher bouquet. Gift your family with a Startimes gift, which is the ultimate gift. And you can get a fully connected uh, Startimes satellite dish for only 2,999 bab. Can you imagine they give you one shilling back? 2,000, you see, those one bobs are important, Barbara.
Barbara: For savings.
Eric: You know, you can accumulate them and then you use them in future.
Barbara: It's true. Yes.
Eric: If you don't want that, you can get a decoder and a subscription for only 1,499 bab. And this is what I need you to do. Take your phone and uh, send uh, an answer to 2277. And this is the question. Which is the one program that you watch on Startimes that is a true gift to your whole family? Which is the one program? See mingi?
Barbara: Moja tu.
Eric: Moja. I wish adults in the room was there, they would have said.
Barbara: Because we already know the answer for Eric will be telenovela.
Eric: Which is the one program, Barbara, that you watch on Startimes that is a true gift to your whole family? And if you do that, send it to 2277. And uh, you're gonna you might win yourself, you know, a month subscription. Uh, Startimes.
Barbara: Enjoy digital life.
Eric: Yay, yay. It is uh, 28 minutes to uh, 9:00. The reason I love this job, uh, special guest Eddie. Um, Eddie, the reason I love this uh, job here at the adults in the room is we get like when a guest like you comes, you know, we get to spend quality time together. You know, I remember I used to listen to some uh, interviews on radio and no sooner has it starts and then they play two advertisement and the guest is gone.
Barbara: Skiliza aje?
Eric: So unamsikia tu for 10 minutes. You're like, man, 10 minutes.
Barbara: Unasema ulizaliwa wapi?
Eric: Kericho. Asante. Uliwaswa lini?
Barbara: Nilisema.
Eric: Asante. Haya, huyu alikuwa mtu wetu wa ndani aliyozaliwa Kericho. Asante. Tunakuchezea Madilu System. Haya, man. And then the guy goes, so me I stay there, I'm hanging. I'm like, what's up?
Barbara: And comes up after 10 minutes.
Eric: Yeah, man. And you know those songs were long, 17 minutes some of them. Eddie, thank you so much for making uh, this time. I know it's a sacrifice and thank you for making that time to come.
Eddie: It's I'm I'm very happy to be here. And I'm really honored you considered this.
Eric: Yeah, thank you so much. Now, Eric, um, you are you are, you know, taking us along very nicely. And uh, we were the point when Eddie had gone back home.
Eddie: Yes.
Eric: And uh, he's he told his mom, uh, yeah, like he's failed.
Eddie: Yes.
Eric: Yes. He's failed. So, yeah, so did I cut you?
Eddie: No, you can just.
Eric: Yeah, so Eddie, you know, one of the I I I wasn't 39 yet, but uh, it is a very difficult thing for a man to just own up failure.
Barbara: It's true.
Eric: So, so, so, so all this time.
Eddie: Which which is part of the mental health conversation, right?
Barbara: And it's also difficult for men to ask for help.
Eddie: Yes, very difficult.
Eric: So, so all this time, are you speaking to the madam ama muongeleshani?
Eddie: Well, it was it was intermittent cuz uh, it got into a point where we we didn't talk as frequent as we were supposed to. Remember, we have two sons. So, for obvious reasons, we are supposed to be constantly talking. And a lot of that was to do with my ego and also thinking as much as I've got these problems, uh, I'll deal with it by myself. Little did I know I'm just digging my hole deeper and deeper, deeper and deeper. Out of ignorance, out of thinking I'm doing the right thing, and why am I thinking I'm doing the right thing? Because I'm the man.
Eric: Yes.
Eddie: That was my thinking at the time. There's nothing wrong with you believing you're doing the right thing in life, but sometimes I think when it's not well informed, when it's not well directed, you'll you're bound to really have some uh, uh, kizungumkuti.
Barbara: Part of that what they call toxic masculinity.
Eddie: Masculinity, exactly. Actually that I was in a very deep state toxic masculinity at the time. Yeah, and uh, it was not now, now I know, it wasn't really the best place to be.
Eric: You know, I I read bits and pieces and of course, heard you speak, um, and you said that when this job in Nakuru went uh, again belly up, you decided to move to Diani. It reminded me once how I was tired of Nairobi, vitu zilikuwa zimeshikana, so I packed my bag in Nanyuki, I was living in Langata, and I went to try life at the coast.
Barbara: How did that go?
Eric: I lasted for 24 hours in Mombasa, then I came back with the next bus. But I went sorry to the coast and back.
Eddie: Uh-huh.
Eric: So, so you went to Diani.
Eddie: Yes.
Eric: And set up base there and you say this is where you met somebody and the change began happening.
Eddie: I I don't know. Uh, the best way of putting that is that I my marriage had collapsed. Nakuru job came to a close. Actually the contract came to a close because a new a new leadership came in.
Eric: Yes.
Barbara: New leadership, new people.
Eddie: Yes. And here I am wondering, okay, what do I do?
Eric: Yeah. You had a Kiunjuri moment.
Eddie: I don't know which moment, the locust or the each other moment. But for me, it was trying to for the lack of a better way of describing it, trying to look for some element of preservation. To try and keep my sanity together. Then, that's how I was thinking. So what do I do? And I had to leave, I couldn't go back home. We we were separated.
Eric: Yes.
Eddie: And it that is something that killed me, but I wasn't admitting to that at the time.
Barbara: You still had to be stoic.
Eddie: Yeah. Kifua mbele, jikaze kidynamo. So I said, let me go to the coast. Now, luckily at the time an engagement that I I used to do on an annual basis, cuz I'm still indulging in motorsports up to now. I'm involved with motorsports in the country. So I get called upon once in a while to do some work for them. And this time, one of the biggest event was happening at the time and it happened to be um, of course, in the coast. So when it ended, I again didn't have another place to turn to. And it ended uh, because of the journey, I just found myself in Ukunda. I packed my bags and I went to Ukunda. I got a small gig there to handle um, uh, an event that was happening at that time, that is 2017, there was the Diani Beach Festival. And I got it, so I was just taking up responsibilities as I tried to stay afloat. But deep down, what I was doing, I was running away from my problems. I was running away from my responsibilities. Responsibility to myself as Eddie Kimani. And responsibility of trying to mend things back at home or try to have a proper way of dealing with the problems that I was going through at home. So I ended up in Ukunda.
Barbara: And even responsibility to your kids.
Eddie: Yes, and I I it is a time, I wouldn't wish it for anybody and if anybody's going through it right now, there's always a way a way of dealing with it. Now, through that cycle, I ended up now gigs ran out, I was not doing anything and one of these days I decided to take a walk. I was very fortunate that I met a couple of people who sort of got wind of what I was going through, not just I think two people and I opened up to them. And um, that's how I managed to get some place to put my a small place to put my head on.
Eric: Yes, yes.
Eddie: And um, get something to eat.
Eric: Yes.
Eddie: At the time still fighting with my demons, which still kept on telling me, ah, you're okay here. You you stay here.
Barbara: Chill.
Eddie: Away from here. But I all I did, I just changed my location, but my problems were still the same. Which is what sometimes we do as men trying not to deal with the issues at hand, we find ourselves running away from something, but it'll always follow you through. So one morning I decided to take a walk along Ukunda, if anybody, okay, for those who there's that long street going down to Ukunda, there's Ukunda itself and then there's Diani at the end.
Eric: Yes.
Eddie: I was taking a walk and um, it was so hot. I decided to pop in into a shop that I had just gotten to. It was a brand new bakery. I just pulled a seat, sat down and I I don't know what I was expecting. I don't know what I wanted. I just sat down and thinking, let me take a break from this zombiness that I was in at the time. And then this fellow taps me on the shoulder and he tells me, ah, Eddie Kimani, eh? Ule jamaa wa TV, eh? Ni wewe? At that time I you know, I was in Ukunda thinking nobody knows me. I was in a the same thing I'm telling you guys, you're running away you're running away from yourself.
Barbara: It's like you're in a hideout.
Eddie: Yes. So I was in this space in my mind thinking, at least here nobody will know who I am, will not know what I'm going through. Let me deal with my problems by myself. We got talking and um, he happened to be a guy who's very later on I came to discover or because we became good friends after that, he he made me open up. I ended up sitting there talking to him for almost three hours.
Eric: Oh, wow.
Eddie: Talking about he didn't listen, he didn't judge me, he didn't point anything at me, he did not say, Eddie, you should have done this. Do you like we would normally do in normal, why did you do this? So it became a situation whereby I did not know that was some form of therapy that I was going through. Cuz what I needed at the time was just to open up without judgment and not to be criticized.
Barbara: And a listening ear.
Eddie: And a listening ear. Which he did. And after those three, four hours, he went down and prayed for me.
Eric: Oh, wow.
Eddie: Yeah. So what happens after that is that I sort of started adjusting and I call it my Damascus moment. Because a night before that, I I had concluded that I'll take away I'll take my own life. In the little room I was in.
Barbara: Was that the reason why you were walking around?
Eddie: Yes. And I think what saved me was I I I think I blacked out or or something like that. So I woke up in the morning like, okay, I need to do something about this. I was so convinced I've had enough. I was so convinced I've reached the end. I was so convinced I don't need to go through this anymore. But remember all this time I'm just talking about me, me, me, me. I'm forgetting this this other side that I need also to deal with. So this Damascus moment, which up to now we call it that with my friend Peter. His name is Peter Makuona. He's a businessman based in Mombasa. The story goes on further and we become really good friends and he he became a pathway for me to understand what was I doing with my life. And over that period of about three to four weeks, we just kept on meeting. And he now became my go-to guy. So I found myself always ending up at the bakery, wait for him to open, sit, we talk, I go back to where I was staying. Help him close the bakery. And one day, my wife calls me. Out of the blue. We hadn't spoken for a very long time. And um, she was traveling and she needed to she needed me to go home and watch watch the kids. I started fighting again. Why calling now? Why why now?
Barbara: You forget they're your kids.
Eddie: Yeah, you know, at the time that's that's where I was. And I told Peter about this and he sort of made me understand what that meant from a religious or from a spiritual point of view. This could be a terms by the bigger force trying to get things back on track. Why don't you just go home and watch over the kids? And I remember I had not seen the kids for quite a while. And um, I packed my bags and I went. Crossed the ferry, got to Mombasa, got into a bus. And that was the last time I was in Ukunda.
Eric: Oh, wow.
Barbara: Wow.
Eddie: Because I got home, of course, it was work trying to connect with my kids again. I went for the actually what she wanted me to do was to attend a school meeting because she traveled. And it was very important.
Eric: That a parent be.
Eddie: A parent attend. Yeah, so after that is when now the journey of rebuilding began. Yeah, because by that time I had started coming to my own senses. I'd already done a bit of counseling, um, uh, talking to people to get some help. And um, my path to sort of get back on my feet began from there. Yeah.
Barbara: From Peter, from talking to Peter.
Eddie: From Peter. Our Damascus moment. And um, one thing that still stands out for us is that um, we feel that moment was ordained. Because a month later after I'd come back to Nairobi, unfortunately, Peter had a very nasty accident on his way from Ukunda back because he was just operating the bakery in Ukunda and going back to Mombasa where he lived. So he had an accident unfortunately and uh, by the grace of God, he healed out of it. But now he was forced to close the bakery. So we keep on telling ourselves, there's a reason why we were brought together. Because at night or two before our meeting, I was about to end my life. I was about to take it all and and go. So when he shut down, it was like I finished the work that I came to do here.
Eric: In Ukunda.
Eddie: Uh, I'm imagining Peter, that's what he.
Eric: Absolutely.
Eddie: And we all went back to our homes, to our families. So it's a very special time that for me still stands out as the my biggest win in that very dark season that I've gone through.
Barbara: Which year was this?
Eddie: This is now 2018 is when I got back to Nairobi.
Eric: Yes.
Eddie: Made up with my um, with my wife and uh, started the journey of uh, reconciling. And it's still a journey.
Eric: Yes.
Eddie: Yeah, getting to love my kids again and also helping them learn who I am again because I again had been away from them for a very long time.
Eric: 94.4 Spice FM, when we come back, I'm gonna ask you about uh, crisis, like as men, uh, sometimes crisis is what jolts us. And uh, if it is necessary to go through crisis is when, you know, you you you you you begin to change your mind. And we're gonna discuss more about that after break. But you know, we're gonna jam to some R Kelly. Who's not going through a very nice time right now, but I believe he's gonna go through it, man. R Kelly Ignition remix bringing us to 45 minutes past 8:00. We'll be back before you can say Rumbel still skin. 12 minutes to 9:00. We are the adults in the room. We're having a very dope conversation right here in the studio.

Emmanuel: about men and mental health. I'm here with the usual suspects Eric Barber with myself Emmanuel. But we have a special guest, Mr. Eddie Kimani, who's decided to come through and just share his story with us. We're talking about men and mental health and I hope the brothers are tuned in. I hope I'll hear from you shortly because the lines are almost open. 0719012600. You have to tell a friend, tell a friend. And uh Eddie has just narrated a story about how he went to Mombasa. And uh during the break, uh you shared something that uh you didn't share earlier about, you know, some of the thoughts you're having in that room. You know, like crazy thoughts which uh normally wouldn't go through the mind of uh the regular guy.
Eddie: Yeah, um it's one of those moments you're thrown into when you're when you're down to your boots. You you you you are looking for the easiest way out because somebody who's going through a mental illness almost feels as if you're caged. As if you're boxed and your next point of action is to try and any way of getting out. And what happens most of the time is it happens the wrong way and that's why somebody would either die, uh take their own life because you're trying to just get out of this space that you're into. So one for me was um I was staying in this little room and um at the time I was wondering what do I need to do to be able to end this. And uh being the coastal region what it is, the weather and everything is mosquito infested of course. So there's this mosquito net and the the the the circular one that normally hangs from the The thought of how strong is that hook? If I decided to take my life. How strong would it be for it to make it a successful um attempt or even you know. So those are the thoughts you go through and it it has stuck with me because it just happened before my Damascus moment with Peter. Yeah. And and that is what really sometimes at least I'm comfortable now to understand what people go through.
Emmanuel: Absolutely.
Eddie: Uh when it comes to those lonely moments and uh quiet moments.
Emmanuel: I was watching something yesterday. I don't know if you came across it. There's a man who tried to kill himself in the CBD and it backfired from an electric uh pole. And I I don't know if it was a string or a wire. Then he tried hanging himself and he fell down. And instead of people coming to his rescue, people were dismissing him, some are laughing at him. And I was like, oh my God, Kenyans, this is actually a problem. I think we take for granted certain things.
Emmanuel: Yes, and Eddie, uh sorry, I've interrupted you. Maybe you can include your answer with this. Uh um like what kind of support structures do we need for each other as men? Cause you see we're always hanging out. I remember I went through a similar experience but not as uh you know, terrible, terrible as yours. You know, I think many people have gone through the the point at which you had everything and then suddenly you have nothing. You know, and you find all these brothers who you used to hang out with uh are nowhere to be seen. So, uh
Emmanuel: They can't even take your calls anymore.
Emmanuel: Yes, your in fact they meet each other and say how you you're in. Check you. Yes. So what kind of real uh support structures do we need to build uh for each other as men?
Eddie: Well, I would like to say it's a very simple answer. But again, simple things sometimes can be very difficult to embrace. And now even understanding what that man was trying to do in the middle of the of of the streets, a high street there.
Emmanuel: Yes, there's a high street. Kenyatta Avenue. Yesterday.
Emmanuel: Kenyatta Avenue.
Eddie: Kenyatta Street. I saw the video. So it just tells you to the extent um certain men are going through to be able to to end whatever they're going through. And what is so unfortunate is that even men right now, even exiting the world, we are doing it in the most gruesome way possible. And it's been reported that men use the harshest way means. Either jumping from a building, uh um hanging. Now for him, he didn't have any qualms climbing a light pole in the middle of the street and And um certain reports say women actually do it uh differently. They they either take pills.
Emmanuel: Yes.
Eddie: Uh they sleep or mix a juice or something. Exactly. So it's is that how that's how bad it is for men when it comes to what they're going through. In terms of support system, how do we do it? My learnings out of this is very it's something if embraced can actually I believe it can solve or sort immediate problems that we have as men when it comes to what we are going through. And that's simple as being authentic with each other. Being able to be there and being there does not mean you need to challenge or direct. Just even listening like what Peter did for me, I think is the turnaround that helped me to be able to deal with what I was going through. A brother just needs to listen to another brother. Being compassionate, being considerate. And that's where we even now have um the World Health Organization uh initiative which I'm a part of is the quality rights, mental health quality rights uh program, which is meant to help people who have going who have gone through and who are going through mental um illnesses to also have their rights to be recognized. Because sometimes you find even the society does not help much when it comes to reaching out to the men who are having challenges. Utapata the guy will be ridiculed. You're a man, you're not supposed to be weak. You're not supposed to be. Yeah, you're supposed to you're not supposed to show us your vulnerability. Men don't cry. Jikaze. Pambana na hali yako. Those Yeah, ngumu. Those are the things that really do not help in the case of answering your question in how men uh help would get help amongst ourselves. And of course support systems, women have more support systems and of course the chamas, the meetups, you you're easy with your emotions. And that's why the boy child conversation right now is at its height right now. The boy child has and was forgotten. You know, the the the girl child was empowered, she's free, she's confident, she's doing her thing, taking up top positions that were predominantly held by men. And it's it's really sad to see how the landscape looks right now when it comes to you see how boy child. Let's men uh dealing with their problem and again how we are helping each other as men to deal with these issues that we are going through on a daily basis.
Emmanuel: Eric, you're hanging out with a brother at uh with your brethren at 18. You know, every Friday and then maybe sometimes you meet on uh Wednesdays and some random Mondays, huh? And then now all of a sudden when things go awry for you, you know, these guys, cause see these are your sort of your structure.
Emmanuel: Your house of God.
Emmanuel: Your house of God. But now they're your yeah, they're your squad, you know, but now suddenly when things go belly up, you know, they just vanish. Like that would affect you, man.
Eric: No, it does affect you. But I again, you know, it's um I think a lot of it comes with uh the the the wisdom of hindsight. Now when I look back, you start thinking, those were not my friends. Like now I feel like I know how to choose better in terms of friendships.
Eddie: Putting it in a better way, you are now better equipped to deal with again in hindsight, which is a big learning from me from the because a lot of friends fell along the way and I don't blame them. By the way, I've never took any grudge with the ones who fell um fell along the way in my journey because they had to make decisions of also how do they deal with this guy.
Eric: They didn't know how to deal with you.
Eddie: They didn't know how to deal with me. Uh there's of course who will will go and do the full turnaround and of course start ridiculing you, belittling you, um judging you because of the decisions you've made and there are those who actually
Emmanuel: about man to man. So you can cry.
Eddie: have perfected it in terms of show showing what they're going through. They will not hide it.
Emmanuel: But should I cry about in front of my kids?
Eddie: You know, I was telling Emmanuel once. I don't know if
Emmanuel: Should I cry in front of my like should I walk into the digs and cry about
Eddie: You know how that will help? Like I have decided and made it a point in my life that I will teach my kids that it's okay to fail. That it's okay to fail and you can be able to stand up again. We are not teaching them that.
Emmanuel: And do it again.
Eddie: And do it again. Cause they think failure. I failed. And I when that video came out for uh you you engage. The first person who I went and sat down and watched it with was my son, my firstborn son. To sort of explain cause that's the most authentic I could have been with him in explaining where I was, what I did, what I went through.
Emmanuel: And why you you missed out in his life.
Eddie: And it helped a bit in now healing that wound that had caused in his life and also the the brother's life. So it helped. And and that's why I want to answer the bit about crying in front of your child. I think it's also decent to let your child see the dad handling his own emotions. I'm not saying hide. I think it it goes along way especially if it's a boy to understand that we no longer need to be in a space we keep on telling kids uh men do not cry. Boys should not cry. Uh your son has just been hit by a tire outside when he's playing with his neighbors.
Emmanuel: Kuwa mwanaume.
Eddie: Kuwa mwanaume. We are not helping them to understand how to embrace their feelings, their emotions. And I think it's important to let them see what these things are.
Emmanuel: Absolutely.
Emmanuel: And stop being Superman. You're not Superman.
Eric: I keep telling Emmanuel that as a father.
Emmanuel: So it's a conversation you've had.
Eric: Yes, I keep telling Emmanuel.
Emmanuel: It's a good thing. It's a good thing.
Eric: He still doesn't believe me. I keep telling Emmanuel that uh as a father who I will become, I plan to show my sons and daughters vulnerability.
Emmanuel: Exactly.
Eric: That it's okay to be vulnerable and I cannot speak about vulnerability without showing them that I can be vulnerable.
Emmanuel: Exactly.
Eric: So this idea to be Superman that he wants to be that you cannot cry. I remember once my mother was crying about something I did. I think I was in class six. And it really broke my heart. So I said to her, you know what? I started crying through the window because she chatted me up. Mommy, nakuona vile unalia na inaniuma. Ni uchungu, ma.
Emmanuel: [laughs]
Eddie: So later on when we talked, I told her, I will never ever get you through that pain. Because I saw what that pain did to me. So if my mother can cry, if my father were around, why wouldn't he cry?
Eric: Because you understand the pain.
Eddie: But you know, we've moved away from
Emmanuel: Crying ambassador, boss.
Eddie: What's a good movement and actually it's
Emmanuel: And you need a woman patron.
Emmanuel: [laughs]
Eddie: We will be our own patron. So that we can help ourselves. But to to to make it a uh a good thing to converse about it, let's normalize um vulnerability.
Emmanuel: It's across the board.
Eddie: And let's do it in a guided way. And I really know your I understand your concern and I know a lot of us have been brought with that thinking that my dad, I never saw my dad cry.
Emmanuel: Yes, exactly. Cause I was imagining if my dad if my dad cries, I'll just dig a hole and just
Eddie: The dynamics the dynamics of how we were brought up then has changed. And that's what we are battling with especially with the conversation about the the boy child.
Emmanuel: Eric, so unasema utalia kabisa.
Eric: No, I I plan to really be vulnerable and not I don't want to be I'm not I'm not saying I'm not condoning being a wuss or a sissy, but I will cry when I need to.
Eddie: Let's say you'll embrace your emotions.
Eric: Yes, totally. Nikitaka kulia napiga tu nduru. Hiyo kitu imenidunga roho.
Emmanuel: [laughs]
Emmanuel: Usilie hivyo. Usilie hivyo pia.
Emmanuel: 94.4 Spice FM. We are the adults in the room. The lines are open. 0719012600. Lillian, I see you and Victor. I'm gonna come back and pick up some of your calls uh right now. But first, gotta listen to some J Lo featuring some ladies love Cool James. All I have. J Lo, one of the people she dated is Sean Combs. I don't know what you you gotta do to date these girls.
Emmanuel: Right now she's dating a younger man. And she looks good for her age.
Eddie: Just to show that I'm in touch with my entertainment news. I think the young man is one of his dancers.
Emmanuel: Yes.
Eddie: Yeah, yeah.
Emmanuel: So you don't like dating those people who work for her.
Eddie: Msiione hizi nyinyi.
Emmanuel: [laughs]
Eddie: That I just.
Emmanuel: If you touch, man.
Emmanuel: She's actually dating a Ben 10 in other words.
Emmanuel: Let us enjoy some J Lo. We'll be back before you can say Rumpelstiltskin. L Cool J went into acting, man, and uh I think he's uh made some good money there.
Eric: I was reading about L Cool J. The way he was
Emmanuel: You know he cuts number one like you.
Eric: So he's a Catholic. He was born in New York City and he grew up in the Queens. And uh when he was four years old, he walked uh he walked into a room just after his father had shot his mother and his grandfather nearly killing them both.
Emmanuel: What?
Eric: That's where he was.
Eddie: So you imagine the trauma.
Eric: In a pool of blood, yeah. So he was he had a very traumatic childhood.
Emmanuel: Yeah, that's crazy, man. Sounds like the story about uh this other singer. What's his name? This other guy who sang Marvin Gaye.
Eric: Yeah, Marvin Gaye who was shot by who was shot by his father.
Emmanuel: Yes, yes. Those black brothers go through tight stuff.
Eddie: And if you are to go deeper into these issues, it it's just that then the conversation of mental health was not
Eric: Yeah, it was not being had.
Eddie: And again it was again the toxic masculinity.
Eric: You you're just in New York the other day. I think I saw you.
Eddie: 2018, yes.
Eric: 2018. You're doing a play.
Eddie: Yes, on Broadway.
Eric: How did that do?
Eddie: Tinga Tinga. Tinga Tinga the musical.
Eric: Yes, yes.
Eddie: Yeah, of course being led by Eric Wainaina. We had an amazing we did about 12 shows on Broadway.
Eric: Oh, amazing.
Eddie: Yeah, it was an amazing experience. Amazing, amazing.
Eric: I I was trying to watch uh Fela uh by Jay-Z and Femi Kuti.
Eddie: They produced it.
Eric: And uh they were asking me for $250. So I walked swiftly to a Burger King and ate a burger instead.
Emmanuel: [laughs]
Eddie: That's how big the that's how big the theater business is. That's $25,000. That is like the seat Z huko nyuma for $250.
Emmanuel: Yes, huko nyuma.
Eric: Hiyo by the way I was given the cheapest ticket. But I just
Emmanuel: Yeah, did did you do those did you do those like calculations? Like converting it into
Emmanuel: $250. That's a lot of money.
Emmanuel: Check it. $250 times 100.
Emmanuel: Ah ah ah. Silipi. Silipi.
Emmanuel: I went and had another
Eddie: I can't even afford the binoculars because that's why you have to
Emmanuel: [laughs]
Eddie: Great experience.
Emmanuel: We are discussing men and mental health. The number to call is 071 0719012600.
Eddie: Let's pick a few calls and then we'll go back to the conversation. Victor.
Emmanuel: Hello.
Victor: Yes.
Emmanuel: Yes, Victor.
Victor: Yes, good evening.
Emmanuel: Good evening. How are you doing?
Victor: Hello.
Emmanuel: Hello.
Victor: Um I'm fine Eric.
Eric: Yes, karibu sana Victor bana. What are your thoughts on today's topic, sir?
Victor: Uh first of all, uh I think

Victor: Kimani has a very rich history of whatever he went through.
Emmanuel: Mhm.
Victor: And uh there's a time uh uh he shared about when he was in Ukunda, when he was part of a team that oversaw some motorsport there.
Emmanuel: Mhm.
Victor: Uh fortunately, at that time is when I was first uh posted at uh Kwale Forest Station.
Emmanuel: All right.
Victor: Yes, and uh that that that that the motorsport was uh was rightly passing, I think um uh through Kwale town to Ukunda and maybe to hizo za Tanzania.
Emmanuel: Mhm.
Victor: Then at that time I also had some uh issues mentally.
Emmanuel: Mhm.
Victor: I was depressed in a way. Uh in that uh my family, my young family was in Homa Bay uh County.
Emmanuel: Yes.
Victor: And uh I was newly posted to a new uh job in Kwale.
Emmanuel: Mhm.
Victor: And coincidentally, I think uh the only place I used to get solace was uh uh at Diani Beach. During weekends I would go there at Bidibadu.
Emmanuel: Mhm.
Victor: Yes, uh I I I think uh Kimani can relate that Bidibadu area.
Emmanuel: Totally connect with you.
Victor: Yes, so I I think uh I've really learned a lot from your uh from your uh uh history there.
Emmanuel: Thank you. All right. Thank you, Victor.
Victor: Yes, and I think uh it will uh uh it will uh maybe uh most of the youth and uh even adults uh uh in the same measure will will will get something to share and maybe to learn from.
Emmanuel: Mhm. All right, Victor. Thank you so much. Thank you for calling in and uh sharing those thoughts. You know, um Eddie, sometimes uh I I feel like many of us go through, you know, mental health issues as we are pursuing uh happiness uh happiness. And that happiness is uh bundled in some sort of financial breakthrough.
Eric: It's connected.
Emmanuel: But now you also look on the other side of the of the coin and you see people like Anthony Bourdain who was uh working like a dream job at CNN and the same guy is uh committing uh you know, suicide. So, um what what do you think about this uh like you're pursuing finances and this other guy is in a financially good position maybe. And yet, um he's still having problems with mental health. It has nothing to do with the money.
Eric: Depression. Depression does not care about your money. Depression does not care how many children you have. Depression does not care what kind of a job you have. It does not care. Eddie, it has reached a point where even some men, when it comes to that moment of making that decision, I know of a case here in Kenya where somebody tried the first attempt, it didn't work. And it's somebody who was a high profile, very, very high profile, went to another county and took his life. But the first attempt didn't and it took the harsh way out, which was to jump outside um a window. So, it does not know if you're a billionaire. It does not and it doesn't care. And that's one thing that is so sad about depression and especially if it's not countered uh by of course um having the right care uh around you, you making that um decision. It might be hard making that decision. Some are very lucky to make that decision to turn things around. Some have to use uh medicine. Some have to have the right people around them. So, depression doesn't doesn't care and anxiety.
Emmanuel: Mhm. Yeah. So, what are the daily exercises? Like Eric is a ardent gymmer. So, he tells us the way today he was doing burpees, what, what. Like there are daily things he does to build up his body. What are the daily things that one a man can do to help himself?
Eric: Physical activity.
Emmanuel: Yeah, for both.
Eric: Yeah, for just improve. Physical activities, no matter what it is, if it's walking, jogging, are very important. But one thing that we also should um have in the frame of our minds is that our mental health is and should be taken care of the way we also take care of our physical health and physical fitness. And mental health could be fall fall off along the way because them might not even know how to handle Eddie. They might not know how to deal with him. Yes, we were pals, we bought each other pines, we hung out, we we watched sports, we watched football together. But that was it. So long as that was happening, Eddie Eddie went into this other tangent which I feel. So, I I purposed to myself not to really take any columns with either should I get angry with these guys who fell off uh along the way and uh let me know there are few of them who stood by me. And uh they are handful. But now I know now how to identify my authentic friends. Even if they're just five of them. I know now how to to to and we know how to embrace each other.
Emmanuel: That's it. You know, Eddie, I can almost feel your pain. Of course, uh not exactly what you felt. But, you know, sometimes the media glamorizes you. And then there's a spotlight on you. So that uh whatever you were going through, which is human, Maya Angelou used to say, I am a human being.
Eric: Exactly.
Emmanuel: And nothing human can be alien to me.
Eric: Exactly.
Emmanuel: However, when you're in the media, you're sort of a different human being. In that people are saying, "Ona hiki kimbuzi. Huyu jamaa hizi kasheshe zake analala kwa saa hii kwa nyumba ya mato. Hana chapa." So, the danger then becomes, uh and I wanted to pick your brain on this. How much of uh you being a public figure should uh somebody be very much aware of especially when you're dealing with the pitfalls of life? Because Emmanuel, what was happening to you with your friends when the things that were happening to you were happening to you, you had the luxury of privacy. But you are Eddie Kimani. You do not have the luxury of privacy. So, you are here in Ukunda, somebody's saying, "But huyu si yule jamaa wa TV? Na unanyonya hapa kashata."
Eric: [laughs]
Emmanuel: "Na unatembea."
Eric: That's the time you want the earth to open up.
Emmanuel: "Umetembea nimekufuata huku Kisweti."
Eric: And swallow you up.
Emmanuel: And and and swallow you up. So, uh I I really want to pick your brain about what your thoughts are factoring the 15 years that you're in the media. What you knew then, what you know now, and if you're to talk to somebody in the media right now, in any sector that is in the public domain. What need they employ in in their faculties or even their character traits that would then give them a benefit should something as unpleasant as what happened to you happens?
Eric: One of the key things that I of course came also as a learning from that. Again, my era, the time when we got onto TV, there was no social media was not as strong as it is right now. So, that has just compounded things for the current.
Barbara: It's just made a problem bigger and worse.
Eric: It's just made it worse. It's a it's a it's a bitter sweet problem. Yeah, because then again, you need social media to be able to um either to even to do your work.
Emmanuel: Absolutely.
Eric: So, then um we didn't have the benefit of uh oh, I think maybe we were unlucky, we didn't have. So, we were held in very high esteem. We didn't have these outlets just. Now, every other day there's a headline of what a certain popular news anchor has done. So, that becomes a story. Then we were put up in a very, very, very high pedestal pedestal, which made us also look as um uh, you know, kings and queens. So, the problem here was that
Emmanuel: Eddie, I don't I I want you just to put those three dots. You know those three dots.
Eric: [laughs]
Emmanuel: Mimi akitoa siri akapose.
Eric: [laughs]
Emmanuel: Na nyinyi mkaambaka. I'm sure guys are, you know, listening keenly. We're gonna continue this conversation all the way till 10 o'clock. And at 9:00, I'm gonna open up the phone lines 0719012600. You have to call in.
[music]
Emmanuel: Big shout out to everyone in the in the capital. It's not raining. It's uh quite dry now, which is a good thing. At least uh the some of us who live in the suburbs.
Barbara: Suburbs.
Emmanuel: Like in Kitengela, our cars can actually be clean.
Barbara: Yeah.
Emmanuel: You know, sometimes I come from Kitengela and get to the office and guys are like, "Imatopo yote. Umechoka wapi? Wewe unaishi wapi bana?" So, uh si unajua.
Barbara: And then sometimes it's dusty.
Emmanuel: But uh shout out to the guys who live in town, Eric and uh the rest of the guys like uh.
Barbara: Watu wa kuishi kwa building.
Emmanuel: I'm not saying anyone. Exercise kupanda stairs.
Barbara: Nakwambia.
Emmanuel: 88.
Barbara: 88. I'm working out.
Emmanuel: You say you have to shukisha other people so that you guys feel good about yourself.
Eric: What is ashamed?
Emmanuel: Uh one minute past 9 o'clock. We have a special guest today, uh Mr. Eddie Kimani who's uh taking some time to hang out with us here in the studio. And Eric, you said you had some action on Twitter.
Eric: Absolutely. Remember if you're joining us, a warm welcome to you. It's always fun to have you on board and you've made the right choice. Thank you so much for choosing Spice FM. A quick reminder that we are not only on audio, but also on visual. You want to be part of that big treat by simply going on your phone or your PC and clicking www.spicefm.co.ke. So you can not only hear Emmanuel and Barbara, but also get to see Eddie as he's expressing himself. Today we are speaking about men and mental health. And look, apart from calling 0719012600, we like to read your feedback about where you're listening from and what your thoughts are on the conversation. And I see the tweets coming in very, very quickly. Dennis Wachira says, taking notes and I'm learning not to ever judge. Thank you so much, Dennis. Wise man says, a very inspirational story. Eddie, you truly are inspirational. We thank you so much, Wise man. Barry Logola says, listening to the Kimani story, I'm tuned in. A very, very good evening to you. Barbara, anything you're hearing from Facebook?
Barbara: I'm hearing we have Ray Audi says, I have been there. I felt so caged and alone, attempted suicide, but now I'm okay and recovering. It was not easy. Thank you very much.
Eric: Who is that?
Barbara: Ray Audi.
Eric: Ray Audi, congratulations.
Barbara: Yes. Then we have Edwin Magoha who says, I'm tuning in from Tasia. I'm learning a lot. We have Juliet Chesaro says, very engaging. Thank you for this conversation. It's important uh for you to heal a soul out there. And Mandego Shokoti, welcome back. He talks about toxic masculinity. It comes down to the way males are brought up. They are taught to be strong and quiet. This model of masculinity may be why men are more likely to be under symptoms of depression. And Lesajo Matthew says, hey, I grew up with Eddie Kimani hapa on Nax. Please him.
Eric: Shabe massive.
Barbara: I watu wa Shabe.
Eric: Shabe.
Barbara: Nice one, Lesajo.
Emmanuel: Eddie pia mimi ni mzee wa Nax.
Eric: Wapi?
Emmanuel: Nili free hold kidogo kidogo tukaenda huko kiti.
Eric: Ah, huyu ni wa Nakuru.
Emmanuel: Huyu ni wa kila mahali.
Eric: Huyu ni wa kila mahali.
Emmanuel: Huyu ni.
Eric: Huyu ni.
Emmanuel: Saa hii Kericho akikuja atakuwa.
Eric: You need to see the world.
Emmanuel: He's really moved.
Eric: You need to see the world even if it's in your country.
Emmanuel: Yes, you totally have to travel.
Eric: Eddie hata mimi nilikuwa Nax kiasi.
Emmanuel: Huyu alikuwa Nax.
Eric: Ulikuwa Nax.
Emmanuel: Nlikuwa section 58.
Eric: Ulikuwa Njoro.
Emmanuel: Ulikuwa Njoro.
Eric: So ulisema kuishi ama kupitia?
Emmanuel: Kuishi. Nilikuwa Lions.
Eric: Lions.
Emmanuel: Ulikuwa hapo for two months.
Eric: No, standard 8 nilifanyia Lions.
Barbara: Mpaka ulisema Lions unasema Lions.
Eric: Lions.
Barbara: Lions.
Eric: Good to know Nakuru massive is well represented.
Barbara: Nakuru is well represented.
Eric: So, before we went to the break, Emmanuel, I was saying that sometimes uh when you're in the public domain, you're treated more harshly because the spotlight is on you. So, it becomes even harder to deal with some of these very glaring forpas uh about normal things that happens to everybody everyday life.
Emmanuel: But it's just that you've been exposed.
Eric: You've been exposed.
Emmanuel: And people connect with you at that level. You are this guy there.
Barbara: And some are even worse than yours, but now yours is just out there.
Emmanuel: Yeah, you're there. And you're giving a good scenario about social media and your time not having social media. So, yeah.
Eric: Yeah, that's I think one thing that we had. But what in turn that did, it just it just our pedestal was more elevated because we were seen as this
Barbara: In a different hierarchy.
Eric: Yeah, and and I think now what came to play after I went through what I was going or when I was going through what I was going through, I had a lot to to do with I can't hide.
Emmanuel: Mhm.
Eric: I cannot walk around and um and just have a normal as you said, just for somebody who's not been in that position. They could be going and that's why I said in the beginning, my story is not very unique. It's just that now has been compounded by the fact that I spent 18, 15 years in media. So, I'm already in people's mind. I'm already in people's um
Emmanuel: You have seen children grow.
Eric: Yes, you know. Um so it it I had to deal with that. Yeah, and to some I'm lucky there was no social media. Actually, I'm lucky that.
Emmanuel: Yeah, you're actually really yeah, because I think the
Eric: It was not as big as it was it was then.
Emmanuel: But you see what now makes it worse is the fact that now you've been elevated because we were we were sort of a mystery. Nobody would I would actually live my life uh without
Barbara: It's like you're untouchable.
Eric: Yes. Right? Now it's a different story on the flip side. So, there's a lot of dealing with that. So, in in terms of advice right now, I think the best advice I would give anybody who is in that situation, a couple of words. Humbleness is very important. Because what happens is that when you get elevated and you're given this sense of power and because you it's almost as having control of of of something, of your of of of who you are and commanding attention here and

Emmanuel: And that can get to your mind. It got into my mind. Yeah, when you have people opening doors for you, when you have people calling you by your first calling you uh by your first name as if you know each other. You know, but you do not know them. But they they feel they know you. We oh you. We we you are you are one of us. But on my on my end, I'm feeling okay. I do not know I've even shaking hands. I do not know you very well. That's in my mind right now.
Barbara: They feel they know you.
Emmanuel: And they don't understand. What's your number? You know, change.
Eric: Yeah.
Emmanuel: So you also have to learn how to be, you know, be humble. Humility is very important, especially in this day and age. Cause once you're knocked off, we you have more to deal with now in terms of how you've been exposed, uh how people know you, how many followers do you have? So that means your story will spread faster. People will get to know more about the things that you did uh wrong. So it just compounds everything for you.
Barbara: Yes.
Emmanuel: Cutting down your egos. Ati wewe ni news anchor, wewe ni news presenter, you're a radio personality. Your your personality and celebrity.
Barbara: Yes.
Emmanuel: Does definitely get in the way of just living a normal life. So humility and just putting away ego and doing what you're supposed to. Just do do a good job. Let people respect you and you know.
Barbara: Yeah.
Emmanuel: Just do the right thing.
Eric: For for your craft. I always say that uh anybody in the media is akin someone who works at the bank but in front of a camera. It's just a job. I don't know why people assume that now because you're hosting a radio show that now you are important and you have an exaggerated sense of because it's just a job.
Emmanuel: It's a personality complexity. Let me put it in in that space. Yeah. So it gets into you and you you feel you you deserve this kind of treatment. You feel entitled. And and it's you should be doing the opposite. You should be the one serving.
Eric: Absolutely.
Emmanuel: Absolutely.
Eric: There's something you said uh which was very powerful about uh not um like you don't hold it against any of your friends. Yes. And uh uh in this uh you know, talk about uh men and men mental health. How do we like you we are we are outside looking in. So, how do we as men uh deal with uh what ideas would you have in regard to how we as men should deal with friends who are going through crisis?
Emmanuel: Well, it could start by having interest about your friends and not interest about where are we going to have our next beer, not having interest of where where are we going to watch the next Formula One race. But it could go deep down to the point where you need you you and there are ways of doing it. How you engage your friends. And if this are really your friends, you you will know it. And now, of course, a lot of things in life happen in hindsight. That's when now you realize, oh, this should have been this way. But I believe being able to be more concerned and being more authentic with your friends, it'll help us men. But it goes more than that. We also need to be able to reciprocate to it. Cause I might be a very, very good friend to you and I'm concerned about you, but you do not want to open up. And there's no way I'll be your friend and you're going through something and I if I'm honest with myself as your friend, not want to help you if you're not opening up and being open. And that's why the conversation about being in touch with your emotions. I'd want to see a man cry if he really feels like crying. Unfortunately, we live in a world where men show emotions in two scenarios. You could tell me if there's another one. I've only seen men crying at a funeral and during a sporting event.
Barbara: Are you serious?
Emmanuel: Yes.
Barbara: I was about to think I was thinking about maybe when their child is born.
Emmanuel: At a funeral? Well, that could that could be another one. But you see, I'm count you could count that also in just on your
Eric: You know, I I baptized myself as the crying ambassador.
Emmanuel: Yeah.
Eric: On the what's my
Emmanuel: Well done. Well done.
Eric: My is to try and embrace and bring more men into crying. Emmanuel doesn't like it much.
Barbara: Emmanuel gets upset.
Eric: He comes from the school of stoicism.
Emmanuel: No.
Eric: And I kept trying
Barbara: Watu wakukosa kujipata.
Eric: I'm trying to tell him.
Emmanuel: But but let me ask you then. The two gentlemen, why do we have emotions then? Why do we have feelings?
Eric: Uh this is the scenario I normally paint for these guys.
Barbara: And he paints a weird one.
Eric: I was saying maybe you can cry in private because if your children happen to see you crying in the sitting room, it will
Barbara: Look at that.
Eric: It will be taken care of by just being self-compassionate about about your to yourself. We need also to to to to worry about ourselves. We need to take care of ourselves. Our well-being, self-care is very important.
Emmanuel: Yes.
Eric: You know, Eddie, I'm a huge proponent of uh self-care. I love myself through and through and through.
Emmanuel: Totally. It's very important.
Eric: One of the things I do on Saturday night, I love Chai latte. So I go at around 12:30 a.m. when places are quiet in a restaurant on Gong Road near my house. Then I just sit there quietly and then think about my thoughts with Chai latte. So I think that's very important. Emmanuel, why are you laughing?
Emmanuel: [laughs]
Eric: So I I think it's very important and uh before you came in on the show, I was talking about how it's important that uh before you expect respect, you first have to respect yourself.
Emmanuel: It starts from there.
Eric: I have a bunch of people I used to know. I'd call them acquaintances who would pride themselves in drinking day in, day out, day in.
Emmanuel: It becomes a cycle.
Eric: And then now we had a conversation with one of the bunch of guys and I said, so how much of this is viable and actually even healthy? Leave alone to even just your physical body. To you.
Emmanuel: And sustainable.
Eric: Yes. So you've drunk on Monday and you're very happy. Tuesday you drunk again. Wednesday and it's not like it's just these uh keeping up with the Johnsons. So I said, wouldn't it be better in the instead of drinking this hectically that maybe you take some time off and just take care of yourself. That's why again, a lot of male uh men frown upon things like a man going for a massage because you're like, kwani wewe ni mwanamke? But those are good things for self-care.
Emmanuel: True.
Barbara: True. But Eric, have you thought about that? Now just when we were talking about signs of depression, even that over drinking could be a sign.
Emmanuel: Absolutely.
Eric: Let me let me describe it for you.
Barbara: And use of drugs.
Emmanuel: To some, which I also am a victim of it. When you're in this space, when you're depressed and and everything has just collapsed around you, you look for coping mechanisms. And these coping mechanisms can be anything. It's not only alcohol. Coping mechanisms can go to the extreme. You know, some of them I I wouldn't want to mention them on air here. It's not just you see, right now the first thing we think about is alcohol, but that that's the most general escape that a lot of people
Eric: Or even illicit sex.
Emmanuel: Yeah.
Eric: Illicit sex.
Emmanuel: It could go that's another coping mechanism for somebody who's um got anxiety or somebody who's depressed. And they might be not they're not doing it deliberately. They're thinking they're just dealing they're just satisfying an urge. But what they're fighting are some different type of elements that for them that seems like it's the only way to calm things down. And that's why self-compassion is very, very important. You know, why should we focus so much on our physical physical health and yet our mental health if it's not right, then we will not even be able to balance it out with the with what we want to achieve physically. That's why I'm also a very big proponent in believing we also need to change the narrative of how we understand well-being. And change the narrative around mental health. Cause when you talk about mental health, when I mention, I think he mentioned it too. When you talk about mental health, you immediately think, ah, uh, mental. You think of Mathare, you know, and which is a very important institution in this country right now. You have a dark description on it. We don't have anything aspirational.
Eric: Absolutely.
Emmanuel: To tell you aspire about uh you taking care of your mental health. The way you walk into a gym and you see a poster of a built guy with a six-pack, you tell yourself, I want to look like that. Why why can I not see a photo of for example, Eliud Kipchoge somewhere and say, he's an aspiration to my the kind of mental health or mental well-being that I want in my life. So those are we have so much to do in terms of turning around this conversation from creating and building our self-compassion, being able to have proper self-care, understanding that it starts with you so that you can even be able to connect with somebody else at the at the same level.
Barbara: Yes. There's a saying in my mother tongue that I'll just translate it that says not all mad people are in the like the nut house. We have many of us who are dressed.
Emmanuel: Exactly.
Barbara: And are still within us.
Emmanuel: Mm.
Barbara: Yeah. So they call they call yes, they call we call them Malalukitsingubu. Yani you're dressed but you're you're nuts. So majority of us always assume it is that particular person in that institution.
Emmanuel: The guy collecting plastic cups.
Barbara: The dirty guy or yes, on the street arching, but it is it is us. It is one of us. We just need to look because majority of us are doing those maladaptive coping mechanism just to hide like a facade and you wouldn't know what is happening to them.
Emmanuel: True. True.
Eric: All right, I'm picking a couple of your phone calls 0719012600. Eddie is here for the next 29 minutes. So you have to take advantage. Lydia.
Lydia: Yes, hello. How are you?
Eric: I'm good. How are you doing?
Lydia: Thank you Spice FM. I'm very well. This is so important to keep our mental health healthy. We should say hello.
Eric: Yes, hello. We can hear you.
Lydia: Oh, we should keep our frequent I mean, all the time you are very right. We should say, I love myself. Look in the mirror and say, I love myself. Thank you, God. And keep us all safe. You know, like not naming any particular person. Keep us all safe. And give a laughter as often as possible. It helps to improve our mental health. Frequent laughter.
Eric: True.
Emmanuel: Very true.
Lydia: It's good to be healthy. Many people want to kill themselves. And even we I I don't make a big long prayer at night. I just say, thank you, God. I love myself. Help me to into a good sleep. One, one, one. I don't say it with my mouth, but I say it in my mind so that I don't allow any stories to build up in my brain. And I'm gone to sleep. Many people get drunk and take drugs to fall asleep. Just saying one, one continuously in your mind without speaking it, you will be gone to sleep safely. Thank you, Spice FM for your good program.
Eric: To induce that.
Emmanuel: Thank you, Lydia.
Eric: Thank you, Lydia. Really appreciate your phone call. Spice FM, hello.
Caller: Spice FM, hello.
Eric: Yes, sir.
Caller: Yes, I'm.
Eric: Hello.
Caller: Yes, I'm.
Eric: All right, the connection is off. Spice FM, hello.
Caller: Hello, Spice FM, hello.
Eric: Yes, sir.
Caller: Spice FM, hello.
Caller: Hello, hello.
Eric: Turn off your radio, my brother.
Barbara: Please reduce the volume of your radio or the gadget you have feedback. The nation is to hear you.
Eric: Yes, sir. So talk to us.
Caller: This is Kevin from Mombasa.
Eric: Yes, Kevin. Hello, Kevin.
Caller: Ah, nimekuwa nikisikiza hii station.
Eric: Mm.
Barbara: Karibu.
Eric: Asante sana.
Caller: Huyu jamaa huyu jamaa si amevitia bwana.
Barbara: Amefanya nini?
Caller: Amepitia. Huyu mgeni wetu.
Barbara: Mgeni wetu amepitia kweli.
Eric: Una swali?
Caller: Mimi sina swali lakini kenye nilitaka kusema imeniguza sana.
Eric: Mm.
Barbara: Asante.
Caller: Na pia kuna venye amenipatia motisha.
Eric: Asante, brother.
Caller: Na muendelee hivyo hivyo. Mi radio yangu imekwama tu hapo hapo sana.
Barbara: Na ibaki kwame papo hapo.
Eric: Hello, Oscar.
Caller: Hello.
Eric: How are you doing, brother?
Barbara: Oscar, please be louder.
Eric: Oscar, network yake ni mbaya.
Eric: Spice FM, hello.
Caller: Yes.
Eric: Yes, sir.
Caller: Okay.
Caller: Yeah, the connection is also off, man. Uh uh Eddie.
Eric: Tons of tweets coming in, Eddie. Yes. There's a tweet here, Damascus moment. Wow, that was awesome. As a mental health advocate who has gone through similar issues, all I can say is keep going. This is how we stigmatize mental health conditions in Kenya and the world at large. I have a gentleman here, no, it's a lady actually. Alicia Otiato says, how are you, Manu, Barbara and hi Eric. I am tuned in from Tasia and I love this conversation. Thumbs up to you guys. Eddie Kimani from Eric Muriru who says, Eddie, please invite them to man enough. I don't think I don't know if them is us. But uh
Barbara: There's a lady in the building. But anyway, I'm the patron for that other club.
Eric: Yes. And Nderitu says awareness has improved and people out there are opening up and visiting necessary institutions. Without support, it's very difficult to cope with a mental illness.
Emmanuel: True.
Emmanuel: I'd like to mention something about support, but maybe when we get to another point.
Eric: So too many tweets coming in and we love them. Keep them coming. Uh Raphael Kori says, I can't imagine I'm missing tonight's oh, you're missing tonight's show because of technical issues. It's being sorted out, Raphael. But a very good evening to you and thank you so much for all of you all who are sending your feedback. And Eddie is here again as Emmanuel has said for another maybe 25 minutes to pick and respond to the most of your feedback.
Emmanuel: Who is Raphael? Is he in Eldoret?
Eric: Raphael is in Eldoret. Nderitu says I wish the government would increase the funds set for Mathare uh and referral hospital. Uh services have really improved and many are preferring to seek help there.
Emmanuel: Do you think the
Eric: A moment. Raphael, please tweet your exact location in Eldoret because we have other areas that have signal. We'd like to know where exactly you're located.
Barbara: A moment.
Eric: Also, you don't have to miss if you have Tata bundles.
Barbara: Yes, Tata bundles sitakusaidia. Please.
Eric: www.spicefm.co.ke. I know it's a huge commitment, but uh you can
Emmanuel: If you have those bundles, you can
Eric: www.spicefm.co.ke.
Emmanuel: The other question, I just I don't know if I was seeing the direction you're going with that question.
Eric: Yeah, I had a question, but now I don't know if I've lost my line of
Emmanuel: Support from the government. There's something very important that
Eric: Yes, there's a tweet here and I like the tweet. That's why I read it. Nderitu uh local Nderitu says, I wish the government would increase the funds set for Mathare referral hospital. He says the services have really improved and many are preferring to seek help there. I think he's talking about counseling and
Emmanuel: And
Barbara: Yes, they have more services nowadays.
Eric: And then also the do you think uh Eddie the the the education system? Um I know they've tried to change it, but do you think that also has an effect of the the the kind of people it's producing? Cause uh like me who went through the regular 844 system, we're not very expressive. I remember those once uh one of the kids in my class said, a carrot has

Emmanuel: ...and uh the the the teacher was was I don't know what argument they were having with the teacher but this guy said the teacher said carrot have seeds. And then this guy said you're lying. And then the teacher said, the teacher was called Mr. Wanyama. So he said I'm going to beat you up, you'll know why I'm called Wanyama. So he started punching him and uh you know.
Eric: [laughs]
Eddie: Unfortunately, yeah, that's the system that uh to answer you, of course, education falling right into the responsibility of the national government. We do have a mental health policy. Let's start from there. Because the policy is what should help in implementing some of these things. My my vision is to have not only to have counselors in this other public private schools. Let's have counselors in in public schools. That would go a long way in addressing these issues from from the root from the from the Tunas Manga in sports, grassroot. It will be good. The policy is there. It's a beautiful policy. The only problem is that it has not been implemented. It's the policy of 2015-2030. The glimmer of sunlight, let me call it sunlight because I'm thinking it is some hope is that the government at the end of last year put together a task force that has already started its work in collecting the public's views and opinions and what they think, or rather just want to to include the public. Unfortunately, um the way it's been um handled at the moment, it's just that we do not have a lot of people who are directly affected by mental health challenges being represented in that task force. So it's a it's an issue that I think needs to be addressed to be able to fully understand and wrap our heads around what can we do about mental health in Kenya. The initiatives is brilliant. And if that is overlooked, we will not be able to to to properly implement this policy and anything else that comes from that. So
Barbara: I really hope it's implemented.
Eddie: That's that's the hope. But unfortunately, um they've already started. They were in Meru, they've been to, if I'm not wrong, in Nakuru. They're coming to Nairobi at the end of the of the month. It's a beautiful team. It also includes uh Dr. Jenga for those who remember Dr. Jenga back in the days. He was a man who stood his ground for very many years um pushing the mental health conversation. But then again, it's really elevated to different status now and it's good to see him in fold. But it's just important to have players including mental health advocates involved, caregivers, people who have had lived experience in mental health related issues to be part of that conversation, even part of that task force. But more importantly, let's see where this goes, but it's something we need to voice to have the advocate. We have very many advocates. I'm not the only advocate out here, advocate out here. There are quite a number of champions. And um it's important to see what the government is doing, but it can do more by involving more people, those who are on the ground, those who are affected to be part of that panel listening to the public and what they want to represent.
Barbara: To be their ambassadors.
Eddie: To be their ambassadors.
Emmanuel: Eric, I don't know if you've met this uh guys who went through IGCSE. I used to find them to be very expressive. Like they'd express what they're feeling.
Eric: The system is very friendly when it comes to that.
Emmanuel: Yes. Yeah, so you'd meet a guy who uh if you're say together in a workplace like this and something happens. This guy is very bold at expressing himself to say the boss. So he'd be like, no, I don't think that that, you know. But this other guy who'd gone through 844 is timid because you've been drilled not to express yourself.
Eric: Yeah, no, no, it's totally true. I think uh parts of the challenges we have encountered as adults is how we were brought up. And uh thank God for the
Emmanuel: It boils down to that.
Eric: Yes, and thank God for the internet age because now you can teach yourself.
Barbara: And we have taught ourselves a lot.
Eric: You can teach yourself how to
Emmanuel: Julius Yego taught himself javelin throw.
Eric: Yes, so you can
Emmanuel: Just by YouTube. He's our champion.
Eric: And you you can express yourself better, learn better uh and dealing with people better and so on and so forth. So uh not all is lost. If you are in a system that wasn't favorable, you can always acquaint yourself with systems that are more favorable.
Eddie: And it's my prayer that the new system that we are introducing into the system, yeah, will be able to address some of these issues because it starts from there.
Barbara: The CBC system.
Eddie: Yeah.
Emmanuel: School.
Eddie: That one-year-old and how he understands about embracing his uh how you do relate. It's not just about to calculate and crash and um and crunch numbers. It's also how do you connect with your fellow people?
Barbara: Yes.
Eddie: Fellow students.
Barbara: And they also have the guiding and counseling sessions in that system, which is much better. Because there are some certain public schools which did not have.
Eddie: Exactly. We might not feel the we might not see the fruits of this right now. But I'm sure if that's the direction we're going, we might be at par as Manu says together with this IGCSE. Yeah, and we we we stand up and of course being bold and being appreciative and embrace our
Barbara: Yes.
Emmanuel: Yeah.
Eddie: You know.
Eric: Yeah, and Emmanuel coupled with the school system, even parenting speaks and uh a big, big part. How you effectively parent your children
Emmanuel: Exactly.
Eric: Is a big role to play. I was listening to a podcast over the weekend and this man was saying that as young boys we play with power toys, you know, Superman, Batman. Young girls play with romance.
Barbara: We play with dolls.
Eric: We play with dolls, weddings.
Barbara: We play house.
Eric: So how we begin, we end up, you know, putting up the things we learned as infants, even boys, into marriage because now men only understand power. Women understand romance. And then you clash. So you have this man who knows about Superman
Barbara: We need to mix it up.
Eric: But doesn't know about holding a woman when she's feeling emotional. He just wants her to fly on top of buildings.
Emmanuel: [laughs]
Emmanuel: Matthew.
Matthew: Hello.
Emmanuel: Sema Matthew.
Matthew: Hi, how are you?
Emmanuel: Talk to us, my brother.
Matthew: Uh, I'm I've missed you guys so much.
Emmanuel: Yeah, man, you've been AWOL.
Matthew: I've been AWOL Kiasi. But uh not by choice.
Emmanuel: All right. Salamia mgeni.
Matthew: Uh Eddie.
Eddie: Hello, Eric, how are you?
Barbara: Matthew.
Eddie: Oh sorry, Matthew, sorry, Matthew.
Matthew: Matthew was Eddie Eddie was my my schoolmate in primary school. We actually grew up in the same hood, Shabe.
Eddie: Is it? Shabe, Matthew.
Matthew: [laughs] Yeah, mimi nilikuwa nakaa hapo karibu Holy Cross Church.
Eddie: Mambo vipi? That was my
Matthew: Salama sana.
Eddie: Pleasure, pleasure, Matthew.
Matthew: Uh now um it's it's uh quite uh some story that you've shared.
Emmanuel: Yeah, man.
Matthew: And uh and uh it's sad that uh out there people are going through challenges.
Eddie: Oh yes.
Matthew: Um sometime in November uh a friend of mine called me early in the morning. Some told me that uh you know, he's uh he feels he's reached the end of the leash. Because uh they were they were they were fired uh some some 800 people declared redundant. Unajua ile unakutwa kazi bila notice.
Emmanuel: In mass. In mass.
Matthew: Oh, yes. So um it's I'm I'm glad that uh he he spoke out because had he not spoken
Eddie: Very important.
Matthew: It it would have been, you know, and this is the one guy I know who is quite reserved. He's the one person he never talks about anything. I actually the fact that he he actually spoke out uh really got me because uh when he told me he was at the end of his leash, I totally understood. Because here's a situation whereby you you you you're in a family and uh you feel your wife would not understand
Emmanuel: Yeah.
Matthew: That uh you know, the income that you enjoy and uh the the good life that you've been having.
Emmanuel: Coming to an end.
Matthew: Yeah, so uh
Eddie: It's good to hear that. Actually, sorry to interrupt you, but I just want to acknowledge the fact that you did something very important, which is to listen to him.
Matthew: Actually, what I did is like I called him and I told him unajua pale Tower One.
Emmanuel: Matthew, we have 15 seconds.
Matthew: Actually, he was saying, he told me that he was he was he was thinking of throwing himself from Tower One.
Eddie: Wow.
Matthew: And uh you know, we sat down kwa parking and we talked and uh he he got out of that decision.
Eddie: You helped somebody.
Matthew: And uh you know, talking talking is quite important. Talking is is is quite important.
Eddie: Thank you for doing that. Very, very. Thank you, Matthew.
Emmanuel: Matthew is a big friend of this show. He's one of our day ones.
Eddie: Fantastic. Matthew, Asante.
Emmanuel: Brilliant guy from uh
Eddie: Nakuru.
Emmanuel: Yeah, from Nakuru, man. Nakuru is really doing well today on this show. We're going to be back with more conversation with our special guest Eddie Kimani. We're talking men men and mental health. And the ladies are also listening in because I think most of these things work both ways. 45 minutes past 9:00. Time flies, you know, when you're having fun and you're having authentic conversations which we'll be back with right now.
[Music]
Emmanuel: 94.4 Spice FM. We are the adults in the room. I hope you're having a good time wherever you are. Eric, are you hearing anything?
Eric: I am hearing everything. Very good evening to you.
Emmanuel: Very, very.
Barbara: You're from a silent night.
Emmanuel: All right. You are uh you're saying you're hearing everything.
Eric: I'm hearing everything. A very good evening to you and thank you for the ride. You know, we've been keeping it here from 7:00 all the way. Eddie's having fun like uh you wouldn't believe it. And remember if you're joining us, we are having a fantastic conversation. We are talking about men and mental health.
Emmanuel: Yeah, man.
Eric: And men and mental health. Uh what are your
Emmanuel: And mental health moment right now.
Eric: [laughs]
Barbara: Yeah, you're having one.
Eddie: Embrace it. Embrace it. Embrace it.
Barbara: Accept it and you can even cry.
Emmanuel: Eddie, I have a I have a question. Uh if if I'm a guy out there because you know, time really flies on these shows and there's so much information like you can't even compress. Like we've been talking
Eddie: It just reminded me how I used to grapple with time when I used to run our sports show.
Emmanuel: Those days.
Eddie: Yeah. And the way you have
Emmanuel: It's never enough.
Eddie: Healthy conversations that you you almost don't look at the clock. That's when you realize the signs are up or the producer is throwing the laptop at you.
Emmanuel: [laughs]
Eddie: Yeah, but here you go.
Emmanuel: Yeah, yeah, yeah. So do you have um places where as a man I can run and uh um you know, get more information about mental health.
Eddie: Now, uh with this direction that my life took, I have now purposed to make this uh a very important part of my life in terms of being a mental health campaigner and more specifically help my fellow men in just understanding a little bit about their mental health and their well-being. So I have started an organization by the name of Mindbright Resources.
Emmanuel: Yes.
Eddie: Which is more or less uh handling or meant to create and facilitate safe spaces for men. And of course, innovative spaces for men to engage and trust trust spaces that are trusted. Now, one of the uh offshoot of this company is called Brotherman Shave and Talk Initiative.
Barbara: Brotherman what?
Eddie: Brotherman Shave and Talk Initiative. So basically what it is, we want to collaborate with barber shops and barbers. Because this is one of the few, if not the only spaces that we have as men where our guards are completely down.
Emmanuel: And we are sober.
Eddie: And we are sober. Well, sometimes you might be convinced that you need a haircut straight from the pub. But then again, we are very purposeful about this because we feel it's a space where men can have authentic conversations without being too judgmental. Already, we have very authentic conversations. We talk about sports and we get very emotional, even with your barber. Na mnaletana juu. We even have um conversations about sports with the guy being shaved next to you. And you mnaletana juu. But why not see how we can weave around this space and let one of the conversations be about our own mental health being. So what we want to do is hold hands with barber shops, hopefully around the country, using this initiative to be able to tell, you know, listen, you've got this amazing space here. Let us use this space in collaboration with you and advance this conversation for men in mental health and their well-being because it's the only place where I can comfortably sit with a man with a blade on top of my head and feel not threatened.
Barbara: I feel safe.
Eddie: Yeah, I I trust my barber.
Barbara: Yes.
Eddie: And you've mentioned you you have a barber you've gone to for almost eight years. Uh you it's like 20 years. And I'm just kidding. But we have, I'm sure the people who are listening, they've have barbers they've gone to for almost 20, 15 years.
Barbara: Yes.
Eddie: That guy knows you so well. So why not train this barber and just make them mental health champions? We're not saying we're going to make these uh psychologists or psychiatrists or counselors. These are just people who are going to be trained and made aware of how to identify somebody who might needs who might need an extra ear just to listen to. Somebody who might need to get the right direction. Where do I go to? I'm stressed, I'm depressed. Who do I go to? So the this initiative is basically to help set up that as an initiative across all barber shops. That's the dream I have. Because it's a very important place. We meet the some men go there just to sit and have banter, which is okay. But it's a safe space. And we believe in whatever is talked about in that barber shop. So we'll also have talks when even normal days when you walk in and you find Eddie Kimani giving a talk in a barber shop. So don't don't don't be thrown off. But we want to have this conversation filling up this barber barber shops all over the country. It will not sideline football, it will not sideline uh the politics.
Barbara: It will just add on to that conversation.
Eddie: But it will add on to that conversation because we have a very interesting fabric of how men engage inside a barber shop. So the barber shop shave and talk initiative, um I would say it has officially started this week. We're already in talk with a couple of barber shops in the CBD to start engaging them and bringing them on board to hold hands and start, you know, get getting men where at the core. We want to go to the men, not the men to come to us. We'll have the men's conferences, which is well and good. We'll have many engagements. Yeah, hopefully we'll have the real ones coming. But this will be just one of the um uh directions that we we would like I would like to see the conversation of mental health especially amongst men going through. And then the barbers will be trained how to listen, how to answer the the questions the right way, how to because somebody's going through depression is very sensitive, very very sensitive to anything. So it's not just about talking to them. How do you talk to this person who wants to understand? How do I deal with my marital issues? You're not giving them solutions, but you're just pointing them to the right direction and also giving them that ear. Listen, I will tell you what to do. I have a small then we'll distribute cards that has contacts. The way we have cards for emergency numbers. So you'll have contacts of who to talk to, the psychiatrists, the the facilities that deal with specific challenges, where you can go and you know, get some help. So it it's part of that.

Eddie: it will be part of that journey to for that individual to get help.
Barbara: Mhm.
Eddie: Yes.
Emmanuel: Another guy uh who's uh come across my mind is that guy at the bar. You know the the the guy at the counter, the bar. He really listens to many stories from many, many people.
Barbara: The bartender.
Emmanuel: You know.
Eddie: So imagine if you mold that. That's also another another another way, another avenue. Because men we will never be vulnerable when we are outside our comfort. Because of that when you're in that baba's city. You sometimes even black out.
Emmanuel: Yes.
Barbara: Mhm.
Emmanuel: And uh the
Eddie: One powerful thing you've said is you don't you're like you're not shoving solutions down the throat of.
Emmanuel: No.
Eddie: No. And that's the last thing the person who's going through that needs. Yeah, just a listening ear, understanding, asking the right questions. And there's so much information and one funny thing about mental health, it's one of the most or the best documented health issues in the world. Unfortunately, there isn't much embracing to it. So you can go online and get so much um answers to your questions about how do you deal with your brother who's going through a mental issue. So don't feel left out when it comes to getting solutions about how to deal even with your own uh mental health. There's so much information out there. All it needs is just the interest to to make a change and just also to help and listen now to to to other people.
Emmanuel: Should we wait for the Eddie Kimani podcast too?
Eddie: Under the same Mind Bright resource, there is a podcast planned. We are just doing the last final touches in terms of um just molding it to make it purposeful. We just don't want to start a podcast and because we want to do something that is sustainable. And this is I'm in I'm in this for the long haul. As long as I'm breathing and I'm on this earth, I will do my bit.
Barbara: Oh, that's so nice.
Eddie: I'm in this for the long haul and we'll try and use any avenue available to try and advance further. Because we can talk and talk and talk, but we need to start taking action and how we can now bring about these solutions especially men and men. We need we need we need to do this. We need
Barbara: Yeah.
Emmanuel: And how how do I uh reach you if I'm a guy out there?
Eddie: Right now, of course, I'm very uh particular about social media. As we all know, it's really a very powerful platform. On Facebook, the page is already up and running. Brotherman Shave and Talk Initiative.
Emmanuel: Brotherman Shave and Talk Initiative.
Eddie: Yes. And of course, through my own page, my DM is opened.
Barbara: That's just Eddie Kimani?
Eddie: Eddie Kimani, yeah.
Barbara: Okay.
Eddie: And I've not put a picture of a robot, sijui nini.
Barbara: It's you.
Eddie: It's me. So I'm I'm available on Twitter on uh Instagram under the using the same name. But for the for for that particular initiative, we do have uh Brotherman itself also because Brotherman is a vehicle now for men's the men um agenda in terms of helping them with mental health. And I'm also focused on talking to employers through their companies by providing lived experience mental health training where I collaborate with uh consulting psychologists. I I collaborate with psychiatrists where we come and do talks to your staff because the workplace is another space that we need to start uh having employers understanding. You need to invest more in mental health and well-being in that office. You need to invest more in the caring about your because companies are spending so much money on safety and and security, which is good. It's fantastic. But health is also a good investment and well-being at the end of the day is very important across the board for for your staff members.
Emmanuel: Yes.
Barbara: Absolutely.
Emmanuel: It's been a dope conversation. Eric, unataka ku uh thank the the guest.
Barbara: No, thank you so much, Eddie. Thank you so much. It's uh always a pleasure to find another mind and uh thank you for sharing very transparently about your experiences and uh now that we know better, we hope that uh you and I and Emmanuel are going to do better especially in regards to mental health illnesses.
Eddie: There's no health without mental health. A mantra that I think is very important. Even you can put it on your
Barbara: Absolutely.
Emmanuel: There's no health without mental health.
Eddie: Yes.
Barbara: For me, I've said, I will I've learned from Eddie that we need to push the message across and we need to be open to ask for help. Whether it's a man, whether it's a woman, and also not only for yourself, for your loved ones.
Emmanuel: Mhm.
Barbara: Kabisa.
Eddie: Manu, allow me three seconds. Another solution or a direction I think that would help this country and the world. If we have our leaders talking about their mental health, it would go a long way. A CEO waking up in the morning and saying, I went through this tribulations. I I'm in touch with the problems I'm with and I understand what you're going through. Leaders need to start talking about mental health.
Barbara: To be champions.
Emmanuel: You've heard it. Leaders, the leaders. You you've heard it, man. Thank you so much, Eddie, once again. This conversation can go on and on. I just want to wish you a good night. Tomorrow, same time, same place. Have a good night. Music all night long.
[music]