Speaker A: In this episode, I'll be sitting with two bold voices: artist and activist Shion and Nikula Kwokwuti, and creative entrepreneur Nobu Igwe. Together, we'll unpack the pressures, pride, and pitfalls of being a man in the masculinity and money conversation. You guys are welcome.

Speaker B: Thank you, sir.

Speaker A: And of course, to you guys watching, this is not an interview. It's not a panel, it's just, you know, men sitting down and having open, honest conversations. And you're welcome to listen in. This is Mentality with Ebuka, and you're welcome.

Speaker C: I think we should start with a quick, uh, I don't know, I mean, I hear this bad luck to cheers, so drink our water.

Speaker D: Does the bad luck reflect on you?

Speaker A: Okay, so for them, what happened?

Speaker D: Don't worry, I'm all right. Recently there were rumors of rapture.

Speaker C: It's supposed to be today now.

Speaker A: It was today or yesterday? It's 3 PM, maybe people are leaving.

Speaker D: Because I know I was making heaven, I was practicing.

Speaker C: Me, I can't even wait for the Christians to leave. Okay, I'm happy somebody said they are coming to get you guys today. What time? You want me to go? You know, I mean, I cannot. Is that the topic of today's program? Okay, I guess we're going to have a discussion. I see you all on the other side. I've been following it so like passionate. Is true, but you know, we'll get into what you have again. I came in, I saw Banker, I'm like, oh no, it has definitely not happened if I'm still here. Because I know if Jesus is picking one Christian, the first to go is Banker. As soon as I saw you, I'm like, that means it has not happened. So you didn't feel worried when you saw me? No, no, me? I know with you, it's not possible.

Speaker A: Okay, not yet, but I will call you and say, hey, what does that mean?

Speaker C: No, nobody's going.

Speaker A: That I'm staying? All right, that means you don't know what to say.

Speaker C: Yes, yes.

Speaker A: So nobody will go out?

Speaker D: Yes, yes.

Speaker A: I'm not doing this show again.

Speaker C: No, no, no.

Speaker A: Anyway, that's not what we're here to talk about. We're here to talk about money and men. Men and money. Um, the pressures, the everything that we're going through today. That's— and they say Nigerian men don't talk about their issues. I don't know if you agree or disagree, but I always just start with a very interesting story because sometime this year, it was I think in February, um, we have a family group and an extended family member's video dropped on the group that he was kidnapped. Um, he's about, I want to say, late 20s. And they showed him video. He was tied up and they had put in their request of about 20-something million naira to release him and everything. And so there was of course panic. Cousins are texting, what are we going to do, where's the person? And then my elder brother opens the video and zooms in and starts saying, did you see the rope? I'm like, what rope? And he goes in and we find out he wasn't actually tied up. Long and short of it, it turns out he kidnapped himself and wanted to make money off of the family. I like this one.

Speaker C: Basically, it's your fault. Obviously you're not taking care of that guy. So was it—

Speaker D: was this before Big Brother?

Speaker C: So that's the question now, because this is on you.

Speaker A: Because now the question is about the pressures that young people are going through. This happened earlier this year. And not even young people, men. Everybody seems to be— and I personally think a lot of the pressure is more from other men, consciously or not. There's respect. I think respect in Nigeria is monetary.

Speaker D: Yes, yes, I agree.

Speaker A: No matter how great you are at what you do— Shonwu is not nodding, so I guess I'll go to him first. No matter how great it is you are at what you do, how much you get. Is usually the last question. I don't know if I'm making sense.

Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, it's true. But you know, the thing is, life is what we're all here to live, right? And as we all know, like, although we are all civilized, but the natural instinct of being a human is what still drives us in that deepest part of our psyche, you know. So I believe, you know, we are here to procreate, to multiply, because once you drop your genes on Earth, that's how you secure your everlastingness. Your immortality is by your kids, because they will have their kids, and everybody carries your bloodline. So everybody wants to have kids and family and procreate. And, you know, but we live in a weird society where— okay, so young people— I'm saying this, I'm giving this example because of the story you told. A young man who is in his 20s making his life, he doesn't have much, you know, has to compete for a companion. With politicians who are shameless and rich men who don't have any honor, who come down from their perch in their 40s and 50s to compete with the 20-year-old girls, with these young men.

Speaker A: So you think a lot of it is heavily about the women?

Speaker C: Companionship. Don't mistake it for like just the women, or, oh, I just want to jump into bed. No, I'm just trying to clarify, is that one of the issues for young men? You're talking about young men, you're young cousins. I'm saying for young men, I still think it's more other guys.

Speaker A: Yeah, social media is—

Speaker C: it's other guys.

Speaker A: These things are in your face now.

Speaker C: It's other guys. But it is—

Speaker A: you think it's older?

Speaker C: What context is in the playing field of us trying to talk to the opposite sex and growing up, finding ourselves in this world, right? And young models. Yeah. And young men are basically told You cannot come into the world if you don't have this, this, this, this, this. So they are under that pressure, you know. They are under that pressure, you know. Most people talk about all this love is everything and all that kind of shit, like, but young men are not allowed in Nigeria to experience that emotion without money, without money. And it's not fault of the women. So I'm not here to blame young women, but young women who are also in the position that these young men are, because most of us are from very poor backgrounds. I know all of us online are rich.

Speaker A: How are we?

Speaker C: Everybody, are you rich? If you look online, everybody in Nigeria is rich, you know, or at least, you know, this abject poverty we talk about, where is it?

Speaker D: You know, but I kind of feel like I have a different My take is a bit different from what she thinks. I feel like the Nigerian young man is positioned differently from what is like—

Speaker B: positioned differently?

Speaker D: Yeah, from what we get overseas. So I was telling someone, if you're an African, if you're Nigerian, you can hardly live off your talent. Let me explain what I mean. You know, overseas you can be a painter and it's okay to be a painter. You don't aspire to be the biggest painter, but you just know that being a painter will make you happy, will provide for you to feed yourself and your small family. You live in a small house, you can go about your things, and people respect you for who you are. Now, in Nigeria or in Africa, because it's— maybe because everything has to be paid for in cash, there's that pressure to be able to have enough of a lot of that cash to be able to do a whole lot of stuff for everything. So where, you know, where— well, it's funny that we're having this conversation in a beer parlor because even when men don't talk, men talk in beer parlors because that's where they see other men. They sit down, they have conversations.

Speaker A: Do we talk about deep stuff? That's a completely different conversation.

Speaker D: Yeah, but the thing— but the thing is, you feel the pressure to provide. Men have been told they have to provide from get-go, from the moment you are born till you become an adult, you know. That's what—

Speaker A: it's not certainly— this is your life.

Speaker D: And, and if you also— if in Nigeria where we celebrate what they call it like get surprised without some sort of roots. What if you just have money? Nobody asks you any sort of question again.

Speaker B: Yeah, so that for me is, is the real crux of the issue for Nigerians and Africans, is this idea that riches are tied to respect, right? So my wife and I, we have two sons.

Speaker A: Sorry, is it African or Nigerian? Because a lot of African countries like— and maybe— and I don't have the answer here. I don't have the answer here. That's why I said I don't have the answer, but I keep hearing it's Nigerian thing.

Speaker B: Yeah, maybe it's fair to focus on Nigeria because that's where we are.

Speaker A: But I hear that it's a Nigerian thing. The Nigerians are materialistic. Nigerian men are taking everybody's country's girlfriends because we have money.

Speaker B: Yeah, so my wife and I were talking about it, and you know, we have two sons. My older son is going to be 5 soon, and it, you know, the conversation started and we started talking about how in Nigeria, this idea that once you have riches, no matter how you got it, you are accorded respect, like you are an honorable, successful role model to society, even if you got it by stealing money, right? So it's not about the process, it's just about the money that you have at the end of that process. And so we started saying to ourselves that, hey, when we're, you know, bringing up our sons, it's not just about saying, did you get an A? It's about celebrating the process, about saying, oh, I saw you sit down and do your homework. I saw you, you know, invest the time or the energy so that we we move away from this idea, this thing about it's just results that matter.

Speaker C: But do you know why results matter? No, results do matter, but it shouldn't just be that. Like, when Nigerian people like see a rich man and they're like, wow, he's rich— me personally, well, you all know my antecedents online, so I think everybody knows, but In general, young people would look up to elders. It is natural, right? So someone is making it, somebody has money, it is not the duty of the people to castigate him and say, where did you get the money from? If all our security agencies, you know, when there's a law in the land And this is one of the things we always mistake, you know, when we do things in Nigeria that we do mistakenly. Like, we have agreed as a people, and it is codified in our constitution, that there are certain things that we don't want. We don't want armed robbers. We embrace these things that we are talking about right now. These people that I say we don't know the equation and the result. So here's the question: how many people can actually say something?

Speaker D: And I feel like we're here now because we, even if it starts from this table, we need to correct that impression. We can— your industry, yeah, we cannot—

Speaker A: your industry is, like he said, is very complicated.

Speaker D: Let me say something again. We can't even associate to where— see, do you know what is happening, right? When I was— when, let me say, when I was growing up, the idea was if you leave school You get a job, right? You work your way, then you started to— what do you want to do, 9 to 5? Want to do your own thing? But there's a path that you want to go. Now kids leave school and their parents buy them computer to join what they call the HKs. Yeah, from the family background.

Speaker C: Yeah.

Speaker D: Now they have a lot of young girls who would tell you that they wouldn't date anyone unless they're doing Yahoo, for instance, right? Now parents have kids who their boyfriends who obviously don't have a 9-to-5 but have a job, buy cars and gift them, and we all pretend.

Speaker C: So 9-to-5, if you have a 9-to-5, it's fine. What I'm saying, that the 9-to-5 jobs are the ones that are actually more criminal than the Yahoo job you're talking about.

Speaker D: I don't know. Yeah, but what I'm saying, okay, so before I get through, what I'm saying, like, is if I'll prove it with numbers, If as a society-wise, if we don't sit back and say that we need to look back, stop where we are, and reintroduce value in our society, it has to be us. If we keep saying that the government— because the government, people in government, people like us, banking, by the grace of God, will be in government.

Speaker B: Well, I'm not in government, so don't put me in that.

Speaker D: You become— no, but I'm saying if you get into government, you become part of this government that we are pointing out.

Speaker A: No, but I get you. Sorry, but is this realistic though, this idea that we can— and I want to look at it on a macro level. This thing is deep inside the Nigerian psyche. I feel like a lot of Nigerians know the right things to do. So I guess my question is, is it doable for Nigeria to change its value?

Speaker C: What is happening in Ibuka is that this I don't feel like it is.

Speaker A: I feel like it's a long—

Speaker C: poor Nigerians that keep this— it's like decades of—

Speaker B: the poor Nigerians that keep the country going.

Speaker C: Yes, the poor Nigerians in the heart of poor Nigerians that keep this— how do you mean?

Speaker A: No, excuse me, I'm not—

Speaker C: I'm trying to understand. You see, the fact that they've not bomb rushed all your homes, first of all—

Speaker A: please, what is wrong?

Speaker C: Why did you say your—

Speaker D: our homes?

Speaker C: Okay, no, no, no, no, no. Bomb rushed our homes.

Speaker A: What did I do?

Speaker C: Of big love in their hearts.

Speaker A: No, but what did I do?

Speaker D: Our homes.

Speaker C: I'm involved. I say our, our.

Speaker A: I'm not involved.

Speaker C: That's what you think. During NSAS, you see how the whole island neighborhood started to share food at their gate?

Speaker A: Just—

Speaker C: we actually did that. I was the one that did that.

Speaker B: I was one of the organizers. Let me ask you a question. Is a man's worth in Nigeria tied to his income-earning ability?

Speaker A: Yes.

Speaker B: Should it be?

Speaker A: No.

Speaker B: How do we move from that to— from one to the other?

Speaker A: That's the— that's the question I can answer, and it goes back to what Noble was saying. I think we all know the right thing to do. Value systems need to change. Um, I don't know that— because I was watching something recently, I even had to go on ChatGPT and ask, how many billionaires are Scandinavian countries, because a lot of these countries— Norway, Finland— they have the highest— they rank number one in everything: standard of living, level of happiness, da da da da da. And they do have billionaires, right? But there's something they're doing there about placing value on productivity over profits. This is what I was trying to say.

Speaker C: Profits.

Speaker A: So they are— they kind of found a balance between capitalism and socialism. And but people find socialism very offensive, right? In Nigeria, I don't even know what we are because we're not even— are we kleptocratic?

Speaker C: No, we are capitalists for the poor and socialists for the rich.

Speaker A: Yes, it's almost like kleptocracy doesn't even necessarily define what is happening here because— and that's what's this value system, right? So the regular person. People are offended by Yahoo, Yahoo and fraud, and I get it.

Speaker C: But until your friend hits, you will be very offended.

Speaker A: I don't have friends.

Speaker C: 50 million.

Speaker D: You were leaders.

Speaker A: Can't even change anything because the corruption, like Shehu has said, is also heavy. So if you're telling me to stop doing Yahoo while you are money laundering, cleaning out the state coffers. Yeah, why should I listen to you?

Speaker D: Because the problem is this, right? Is if you continue at the pace that we're going, right, at some point we all look back and find out we have no society.

Speaker A: But that's why we're having this conversation.

Speaker D: Back in the day, right, in my village, if you donate money to the church and your source of income is unclear, she will hate church. Yeah.

Speaker A: Church in Nigeria.

Speaker D: If you donate money to the church, right, and your source of income is unclear, the church will give back.

Speaker A: Do they still do it now? They don't do it.

Speaker D: They don't do it anymore just because everybody's of this thinking to say, if the people at the top are doing this and nobody's questioning them, why should I be the one? And because that's how society goes. But like in Lagos, for instance, we live in Lagos, right, where we see people who come to church, like, you know, so somebody is married something something, they bring money, they give to the church for something something, and nobody says, oh no, we don't want this money, even though we know this money is—

Speaker B: so here's my problem. My problem with where we're at in this conversation right now is that it's always very easy to sit down and point fingers at what's wrong. But if there's no— you know, they say if you point your finger somewhere, the other fingers are pointing back at you.

Speaker A: So where do we go from here?

Speaker B: We know that as things stand, like Ebuka said, our self-worth and the way society sees men is tied to income, however you got it. The fact is, do you have it or do you not? So then, you know, where do we go? Do we just stay here?

Speaker A: Sorry, before we get to the where do we go from here, I actually want to ask everybody, um, because you did ask me, do I feel like the biggest— what was the question again?

Speaker B: That, um, is your— do you feel like this is worth a man?

Speaker C: Do you think that's what you think?

Speaker A: You think it's time to work in Nigeria?

Speaker C: Mostly, yes. You agree as well?

Speaker A: So now my question to you, I want to sort of get a ranking from all of you, starting with you, and we'll go this way, okay, of where you feel the most pressure from. Family, because family pressure is crazy, right? There's an expectation. Some of you are first sons. You are a first son. I don't know if— are you a last child? Last child? Middle? So there's, there's— that's— maybe I'm the one who has pressure sometimes from the sons to do certain things. Family pressure is there, societal pressure is spousal pressure. Everybody here is married.

Speaker C: Are you still—

Speaker A: I just want to be sure now, you know. We need to be, because this is the update on the daily.

Speaker C: I'm still married for now.

Speaker B: My current wife.

Speaker C: This is update on the daily.

Speaker A: So family, society, spouse.

Speaker B: Yeah.

Speaker A: And your guys Because another thing I've noticed, before we get to the answer, just, I just, it just came to me now. There's, when you have a friend group, I don't know if you've noticed this, there's a hierarchy. And most times in Nigeria, it's based on who has the most money. He kind of dictates the vibe of the group. Where are we hanging out? Where are we going? Where are we going to have dinner? Which beer parlor are we going to? So there's a hierarchy, and the group, consciously or not, defers to The guy's opinion. She might not be agreeing to that, but I want to get your ranking first.

Speaker C: I actually agree. I love you because—

Speaker A: so that's it. Oh my friend, but these are the things that boys don't talk about.

Speaker C: But we've never—

Speaker A: guys don't say these things, but we know it's that that guy is the person that, ah, where would they go?

Speaker C: Ah, okay.

Speaker A: Ah, where would they go now? Because he's most likely going to pay. But what's your ranking? Family, spouse, society?

Speaker C: Friends.

Speaker B: So actually, for me, the biggest pressure is internal. Oh, I think that it— but it's influenced by this, but it's influenced by, you know, a mixing fusion of all of these factors. But ultimately, it's, it's internal because whether it is from your upbringing in the family or in church or religion or whatever position, however you came up, there's that expectation that you have internally as a man to say as a man, I have to be successful, I have to provide for my family, I have to be able to do XYZ. And those, those things are different for everybody, but you do have that expectation of yourself. So when you have those seasons— because everybody has seasons where— most people have seasons where, you know, it's doing great, and some seasons where it's, you know, you're either red, small. Yeah. And in those seasons when, you know, things are not flowing as well Me, I feel really bad about myself. It's not even that my family is putting pressure on me or my spouse or society or my friend group per se. It's just that internally you feel like, man, I should be doing better than I'm doing now. And if you happen to be married with children, that pressure is not because they're— you know, your kids don't know the difference. Like, my sons just want me to be around. I can be a superhero just by showing up in the room. But I have the pressure— for now. But I have the internal pressure of saying I need to make sure I have XYZ, you know, school fees, life, just a quality of life that I want them to have. It's coming from inside of me. So the factors change, but really the internal pressure is the worst. And the worst thing about it for guys is that we don't really talk about those things. So even when we get together, we may talk football, Arsenal, we may talk government, we may talk But we don't sit down and say, "Guy..." It's rare, I would say, that we will sit down and say, "Guy, I'm going through it. I'm feeling anxiety, or I'm feeling under pressure, or, you know, I can't really meet up." Unless, like, you have reached that point of no return where you actually have to reach out. And even that, for some guys, is a struggle because we've been taught that vulnerability is weakness. So if you are showing that side of you, some people may— you may feel like people may look down on you. So men tend to hold that in as much as possible. You know, so that, that's my, my response.

Speaker C: For me, you are 100%. I'm right or I'm wrong? You're correct.

Speaker A: Okay.

Speaker C: In that aspect of, you know, we have to also ask where does this, where does that anxiety come from that we feel we have to be under these pressures, you know? Like, so me, I generally, my friends and I, in fact, we compete for who is the poorest in the—

Speaker A: you know, is that the way they say?

Speaker C: Guys, you can see them building estate like this. Oha is building how, like 30 buildings in one place, like it's his own, not even with bank. You see the value for you from his pocket. He's telling you about our father, anything for the boys. So you know, among my own crew, I don't think— I don't have that pressure.

Speaker A: You know, I mean, yeah, society though, because you have this, you have your surname is heavy. Do you feel any pressure?

Speaker C: No, because people feel it for me. Who are the people? I'm telling you, everybody is feeling the pressure for me. Like, even my music, people are on my music more than me. I mean, I'm like, I don't even have to stress. People stress on my behalf. Oh, his father has this, his father. I'm like, okay, thank you very much. I can just live my life while you help me handle this, you know, part of the issue, you know. So family, my family, my last born. Well, and also the last place you can go in our family to ask for help is our family. You don't want that, right? Because they will ask you what you've been doing with yourself. But that's pressure that you need help.

Speaker A: But that's the pressure then.

Speaker C: I know, but so you have it at the back of your mind that you can't raise— that you can't, you know, we know I know for a fact, you know, family is not the option to— and then people wanting to talk to other people with their problems, this is what therapy is for. Where's the mic? Camera? I'm supposed to look— where is it? Okay, I think it's my mic. Do you go to therapy? This is what therapy is for. Stop burdening your niggas with your problems.

Speaker A: Why?

Speaker B: No, but you know, I want to argue—

Speaker C: leave your niggas alone and get a therapist.

Speaker A: So I didn't want to argue with that, but so let me finish that, you can see yours.

Speaker C: Okay, your niggas are not your therapist.

Speaker A: What are they for?

Speaker C: We have our own issues too. You can give us an outline.

Speaker D: This is the problem.

Speaker C: You can give us an outline, an executive summary. Both men and women, give us outline of your issue. If we know a solution, we— but don't put the burden on us, bruv. Go to a therapist, because first you need to sort that shit out within yourself. And when you come to us in a balanced way, we can find a solution. The way things work right now is without therapy.

Speaker D: Okay, yeah, just say you're okay. To my brother on the left, this is why we have this particular— we're having this particular conversation, because we are trying to tell men— or Sharon is trying— sorry, not you. So a friend of mine is trying to tell men not to take their problem to their guys. But the thing is, but the thing is, your guys are your therapist, and you, you should be able to listen to your guys when they have issues. I'll give an example, right? A friend of mine called me on Friday and he said, I'm having issues with my wife because I have a nanny that every time I gift my nanny something think my wife steps in and be like, oh, you're doing too much. But to him, he's trying to make sure the person who's taking care of their child is well taken care of. The woman is saying, oh, you have to go through me. And I told him, oh, some— one of my friends went through. So he was like, oh, if I'm known, I've spoken to you before. Now I didn't know how to bring this up, but now they've spoken to me, I have a clear understanding of what to do. He said he was thinking of going behind his wife to do the gift. I said, no, you can't do that. But I had to make her understand that this gift is for the fact that this person is taking good care of your child. Now the thing with people talking to other people is this. See, Ebuka is my guy, apart from being here, right? I would tell him, like, Ebuka came to my house, we're like, oh, we have a new baby. Or my wife is saying, oh, since we've been back, you know, thank you. Since we've been back, this economy, since we've been back, she's not in a, she's not in the mood to have a new person coming to the house. But once she went upstairs, I told Ebuka and Cynthia, I was like, please now help me beg Chama, let's get a nanny, right? That was me telling Ebuka what my immediate issue is, because I can't— I don't know how to.

Speaker B: Yes, please.

Speaker C: The issue with your friend and his wife is trust. That's your one advice, won't solve anything. No, but it did.

Speaker D: No, but what I'm saying, like, it did. So when Chama came downstairs, Ebuka made her know that there is need. If we need to get a nanny, we need to get it now. And the next day she had someone. So what I'm saying is like, your friends, relationship counselor, yes, your parents, your friends, your parents may not be able to help every single of your issue. And that's the reason why Nigerian men, right, if somebody died, so let's go a little too much, you know, you know, you know, overseas, right, someone can— if you lose someone you can go to therapy or do something, right? In Nigeria, you lose someone, they have to man up. They have to get money for the burial. Then after you paid for burial, you have to get back to working and you have to make back the money you spent. Sometimes there's no room for you to really sit down and cry and be like, I don't feel like it today, just because you're a man and you're expected to be strong. So to answer Lucas's question, I think I agree with Banky, but to a large extent, the internal pressure isn't just internal, it's mostly family-oriented. Because if you fail family, that is the biggest failure to some people. The outsiders don't really matter to me, if I'm being honest, right? As long as your family can come home and eat. I was telling someone, my kids can come home every day and know that regardless of what happens outside, they will sleep with AC. How the AC comes on, they might not really care. But if they take like the middle of the night, they'll be like, oh my God, it's hot. But for me that have suffered before without AC, without generator, I know the pressure that I have to put myself through to be able to make sure they have a resemblance of a better life. So yes, so sometimes it's the personal pressure is more or less related and intertwined with family pressure, because society is neither here nor there. I mean, if you buy a new car today, another person can buy another one tomorrow that's newer, so you can't— might not be able to meet up. And in terms of— I want to do something funny— in terms of friendship, when we're all AB, we knew who had the most money.

Speaker C: Yes.

Speaker A: Now So used to be the crew, and we knew who was—

Speaker D: it was gone, man.

Speaker C: And so is our older friend. Yes.

Speaker A: And at the time, if Shagun says, where are you, Dave? Ah, we come, because we know that first of all he had the power with the money, but secondly he was going to pay.

Speaker D: So everyone there, we couldn't leave him out. We can't leave him any place and go home. It's only when Shagun have left that you can go. So