"My voice was beaten out of me by my father - Toxic masculinity"
Stats: Views: 36,447; Likes: 675; Comments: 251.
Speaker: Onyango Otieno (Rixpoet)

Onyango Otieno (Rixpoet): My dad was a very religious man in the Catholic church. So it was so interesting on Saturday nights, he'll be brought home by his friends because he couldn't walk on his own because he's drunk. And on Sunday afternoon, when we go to church together, he's reading announcements at the pulpit. That was very confusing for me. I was used to being beaten. My dad would beat you with his soul. Like all the problems he's going through in his life come to that one moment and he beats you up like it's it's do or die. He was, do you know these things like you watch them in movies like somebody burning you and they're looking at you? That's exactly what happened. I remember that. He was looking at me and he was he was putting the flame here on my hand because of a book that I supposedly stole. I changed completely. I started with drawing because now home now stopped feeling like home. It even started feeling like school. It became a war zone. You know, I'm here with people I can't trust anymore. Mom couldn't protect me. Dad is being abusive. My uncle is just there. Everybody's watching me being abused and I can't tell anybody. So I just became quiet. We rely on women on emotional labor because we were separated from our emotions from a young young age. It was beaten out of us. Don't cry. Be hard, meaning so you become an adult and all of a sudden you're in a relationship and this woman expects you to show your emotions. You don't know how to show your emotions. She don't know how to open up. I deserved a healthy home. I deserved healthy parents. I deserved love. And since I couldn't get those things as a child, I had to learn how to give them to myself. It meant I had to stop my brain from simulating the violence I was taught, the violence I was conditioned to and create a new brain for myself.

Onyango Otieno (Rixpoet): My mom and dad had been fighting the probably 2,000th fight they were having. And I was really tired of this situation at home. Now, being a firstborn in the house, I think I was just forced to grow up so quick. Sometimes it felt like I was actually parenting my own parents. And this time, I took it upon myself to call my parents for a meeting, which is very suicidal. Here I was like, "Hey, nyinyi wasee, me I'm tired. I'm tired of this skills. I'm tired of the fights. I just want a peaceful home. And I'm now an adult. I want a peaceful life." So I called my mom kando. My mom and I talked. So we had a meeting. She listened to me and I listened to her. And then came dad. With dad, it was a risk because we weren't close and I wasn't sure what to expect. Yeah. So I remember he came home, he accepted my call for a meeting and then we sat on the dining table and then I was like, you know, I really feel you guys have been fighting for such a long time and I feel a lot of these things you're fighting about are really solvable matters. Why don't you just sit, just talk through things? This whole fighting, this whole, the background of that was he had floored all of mom's clothes in their bedroom, everything, her clothes, her shoes, you know, after the fight they had. And that wasn't even new in my house. And so I just couldn't imagine me living the rest of my life seeing my parents in that state. Yeah. So in fact, there's a thing that happened between my dad's meeting and I that forced me to now really go back for my own good. Yeah. So I remember, you know, after that whole conversation with dad, he told me a statement that changed my life. He said, "I don't come to you with my problems because you think I'm weak." Okay? So, you know, in my mind, I'm like, this dude actually thinks I view him as a perfect person just because he never comes to me with these problems. And on the other side, I'm thinking, how much pain must he have gone through or been going through for him to feel he can't express himself to me, his child, his firstborn child? Yeah. And I had been asking so many questions about dad because he seemed like a very strange person to me. You know, the violence we grew up in was intensely insane. You know, even as a, you know, I started going back was this thing that happened to me when I was 10 years old. I was in class six. This is 1998. And we lived in Huruma Estate in a single room, actually, with some other small thing for a kitchen over there. My mom, my dad, my uncle, and the household, and myself. And, I mean, that house was so small. I used to like she kind of shed these two small chairs he had to sleep on. Yeah. So on this particular day, my both my parents are teachers. So on this particular day, my dad came back home and he started looking for some book. Yeah. And he didn't tell anybody what book he was looking for. So when, you know, trying to figure out where it was, he couldn't find it. He said, "You guys, have you seen this and this book?" It was a novel by Bill Cosby. And those days, Bill Cosby was huge. So none of us had seen this book. I had seen the cover before. As a class six student, Bodmas was enough for me, you know. Novels, I wasn't such a fan of books anyway because, in fact, home felt like another school. And in his frantic search for this novel, you know, in a single room, and something is not in the four corners of that house, it is not there. So I remember him asking me, "Ama ni wewe umechukua hiyo kitabu?" And then he asked me, "Uh, in this house, can your mother steal a book? Can the household steal a book? Can your uncle steal a book? Si wewe ndio unaenda shule kwa hii nyumba? You're the one who's going to school in this house." Generally, I was a fairly cheeky boy, but not evil. Stealing a book felt like a bank heist, you know, because where was I taking a novel? You know, it was too big for me. So, that evening, my dad, as if he had planned all this, walked out and he came back with this hard telephone copper wire, yeah? The ones we see when we are traveling, these ones there, they had tough copper wire. And he starts beating me up with it. And I was used to being beaten. My dad would beat you with his soul. Like all the problems he's going through in his life come to that one moment and he beats you up like it's it's do or die, you know? It's almost like one of you has to die and he's the one who's stronger so you don't have much luck. But this day was different because he stripped me off my clothes. Yeah. And he would lash at my back, lash at my back, lash at my back with this copper. I was 10. Very tiny body. I was 10 years old. And in 15 minutes my body was frailing and frailing and frailing. Because I wasn't sure how much this man was willing to go. Now, this book he was looking for belongs to a student he used to tutor. So, of course, it was, you know, a very important book to him. And the fact that he couldn't find it definitely the stakes were high. And I was almost the easiest target for his accusation at that moment in time. I was I was bleeding profusely. I was sweating. I was screaming. My mom was watching that helplessly. My uncle couldn't do anything. My dad, you wouldn't tell him anything. And then I I remember my little child intelligence telling me, you know, we are not so sure about this guy tonight. So, just like this once, you know, you lie at the times for things you did, but today, just like you, you didn't do this thing, but you actually, you know, just say you did it. So, I said I took the book. I can't remember where I said I took the book. And then I remember, you know, his bloodshot eyes so angry, he looked at me and he said, "I'll do something to you that you'll never forget." Hey. He stepped outside as if he planned it. Came back. I was on the floor. You know that those last minutes cries. He came back with a size of rope this time. I'm naked. I'm on the floor. I'm crying. And he tied my hands. And then he walked into the kitchen and came back with the paraffin jericho, the ones in a five liter paraffin jericho, and the matchbox. All right. And what I remember is he poured a bit of the paraffin on the the jericho lid and smeared a bit of it here on my upper palm. And lit the matchstick. And he put that flame here. That's why I actually have a mug. And I think my brain blocked the pain of that moment because to date I can't remember how it felt. What I know is I couldn't walk for two weeks. That I remember. I couldn't walk for two weeks. My hand was swollen. I I remember my mom the following day trying to bandage my hand. My my body was really weak. But what happened that evening, I felt like something tore inside me that I didn't have a name for. Yeah. And that was the beginning of my trauma for real, for real because I changed completely. I started with drawing because now home now stopped feeling like home. It even started feeling like school. It became a war zone. You know, I'm here with people I can't trust anymore. Mom couldn't protect me. Dad is being abusive. My uncle is just there. Everybody's watching me being abused and I can't tell anybody. So, I just became quiet, you know? And that was it. My life just changed completely. He was, do you know these things like you watch them in movies like somebody burning you and they're looking at you? That's exactly what happened. I remember that. He was looking at me and he was he was putting the flame here on my hand because of a book that I supposedly stole. Now, this was me 10 years. So, six years later, now the traumas had started showing up on my body. I was in form two. My depression is starting to show up. None of us knew this was depression. What would happen is, you know, I was taken to form one in a school very far away from home. So, I lost my sense of belonging. I felt like nobody was at understanding and or talking to me at home. So, I got to school, I stopped reading. I couldn't read at all. I couldn't socialize. In fact, the only time I was active was when I was in the football place because I was free to play, you know, and football was such an important thing to me to express myself. But in that school, I stopped bathing. In fact, I remember I had this long streak of nine days without bathing. Just me going to class, going to the pitch, coming back, naji pangusa. [Music] That was my life. And then I stopped going to class. Now, I was hanging out in the in the bathrooms by myself. And then I started stealing things because I wasn't doing my own laundry. I would steal my friends' clothes. And then I had steal money. And then, you know, I was busted and expelled. In fact, even without a letter. So, in this period of expulsion, I come back home. And of course, my parents, my dad is angry. My mom is, everybody's angry at me because I did this in school and I've been expelled. I'm very ungrateful. I'm being given an education and I'm wasting it away. "What do I want?" You know, they always ask you, "Unataka nini? Tumekupatia kila kitu." You know? And all this time, in my small heart, I'm just like, I wish I lived in a home I could talk. Because even if I would answer your question, you'd still beat me. Yeah. So, six years after the incident of my hand, in the period I was home from expulsion, now I started running away from home. Yeah. And the first time I ran away, I went to we stayed in a place called Mlolongo. And I was born in Kitengela. Mlolongo and Kitengela, by those days, it was like 20 shillings fair. So, that's like a 10-minute, 15-minute ride. So, the first time I ran away from home, I went to the childhood place I was born in, yeah, to look for those people if if I could find them. I needed to be around people who I knew would get me. And in my child's brain, it was that sense of belonging and that the place I was born would give me that. So, that's I walked up to there because I didn't even have money. And I think after a couple of days, my parents traced me. The second time I ran away, I walked from Mlolongo to Nairobi town, the CBD. It's like 30 kilometers. And for me, it was because life was unbearable in my home and I couldn't keep being in a space where I was constantly being abused. And my parents were also abusing each other because of the fights, they were really nasty things. I say, I wish they had a better, a happier marriage. I wish, I wish it would have been better. But from what I gather, my parents married really young. My mom probably got married when she was 19, as a result of her pregnancy. And she has not known any other life, just like with my dad, for most of her adulthood. And the same thing with my dad. I mean, they were really, really young. There were so many things about themselves they did not know, about who they were, about what they wanted to become in future. There are so many things. And so, they started fighting those days, you know? And it was funny because my dad was a very religious man in the Catholic church. So, it was so interesting on Saturday nights, he'll be brought home by his friends because he couldn't walk on his own, because he's drunk. And on Sunday afternoon, when we go to church together, he's reading announcements at the pulpit. That was very confusing for me. It was it was almost like he had two words inside him and something within him was fighting or something. But what changed also is the more money he started earning, the more violent he became at home. And those fights started becoming worse and worse and worse. And I remember even one night, you know, my mom forgot to do something for the village they have in Uganda. And my dad pounced on her back and started pulling her hair until this hairline started bleeding. You know, and that night I pounced on him trying to separate his grip from mom's hairline, because like she was like, you know, kneeling on the carpet because of something so small. And you know, I I felt like I wanted to kill him that night. It's just that I'm thankful for senses because I was ready either we both die or one of us goes. You know, I was tired. I was just tired of violence. Like those guys fought corner to corner from the time I was probably six, seven years old to the time I was 24, 25. Those were so many years of witnessing all these things. You know, and it was like sometimes if somebody is holding a knife, I've witnessed my mom's blood, too much of it, just too much blood. You know, and that was that was too much trauma for for me. Now, the funny thing about the spacing between me and my siblings, it's it's very accidental. All of us have left each other by seven years. So, I have two other siblings. I'm the firstborn and then there's a guy after me and then our only little princess who's uh by now 2021, she's 18. But the thing is my mom, my mom first had her first baby, she lost her first baby before me. And then I came along. I survived, clearly. And then she had a miscarriage after me. And then she gave us to a girl after that, who died when she was five months, who was actually the reason I started writing poetry. I'll explain later. And then my brother came, who survived. And then she gave birth to my sister in 2002. And then she had another miscarriage during post-election violence here in 2008. So, it just so happened that after all those losses, we left each other by seven years. So, by the time I was 16, 16 minus seven is what, nine? My brother was nine. He he couldn't understand much of what was really happening at home. My sister was two. She couldn't understand much of what was happening at home. And when I finished high school and just about when I was getting to campus, my brother by that time was getting to to high school. So, he was away from home. And, you know, he he didn't witness a lot of a lot of these things. I took a lot of those punches and it was just too tough. I was forced to grow up so fast, faster than my brain was ready for. And those things had very serious implications on my adult life, especially in my 20s and I didn't know how that would manifest. You know, when I when I ran away from home the second time to town, I was living in the streets, basically. Surviving there. I stayed in the streets for two weeks before I was found. And as I was as a 16-year-old in Nairobi streets at night in June, he was rough. Really, really rough. And you see the world from a very different point of view. Now, Nairobi is very different at night. Very different place at night. And you see, I used to hang out at Koinange Street, which is like Nairobi's red light district. And those commercial sex workers were actually my friends. They would they would protect me from Kanjo and all this. Some, I was such a harmless little thing. You'd see me, very innocent. You wouldn't even think I could harm a fly. But one of the things that really transformed my life was even even out there, I had a pen and I had a notebook. I used to write what I was seeing. There are so many complex stories. It's not one homogeneous thing that all street kids are all like this or like that. You know. So, yes, for many many kids actually know where their parents are, but they choose a different place. Because when when somewhere stops being conducive for your own dignity, you'd rather be you'd rather be disrespected by strangers. You choose that. You choose to be disrespected by strangers than people who you know, people who you are supposed to trust. You know, you'd rather you'd rather you'd take that in. You know. And so out there now I used to say I was shoplifting from supermarkets. Those days supermarkets did have cameras like like they do these days. So, it's still like the fresh milk, you know, things to survive out there. And I learned so much about life until one day when I was caught. On 20th June 2004, I'll never forget. It was a Sunday, man. I had stolen some, you know, now I was out there in the street. I wasn't drinking enough water. So, my lips had started cracking and it was very, very painful. So, I went to steal a petroleum jelly, yeah, this Vaseline thing. With some milk because I loved milk was just sustaining me. You could curry, you could drink it, you know. [Music] And so that Sunday, something told me, "Let's go and look out for more." Kale ka shetani kanakuambia tu enda utafute ingine. So I went to Naivas. Naivas was also a very small supermarket those days. We had a Naivas supermarket along Ronald Ngala Street. I don't know if it's still there. So I got in, it was around 7:00 p.m. I went to the fridge to try and get bigger milk. And I have no idea where I had planned to take this thing. There was no way I could hide it. I don't know what was wrong with me. Yeah. So this attendant who was trying to like clean the place because they were about to close, told me, you know, "Kijana, shop haraka tunataka kufunga." So I kept just rotating this place, rotating, rotating, trying to, you know, you doing the vectors and, you know, just trying to calculate, calculate. So eventually I realized I couldn't take the big milk I wanted. So I just resorted to taking the small dairy fresh I was used to. And this guy, because I think he had been watching me for quite a while, walked up to me and I had this long, long-sleeved top. And I had tried to hide the milk here. And so he just opened up my palm and saw the milk on my hand. My guy, this slap that guy gave me, I still remember it to date. Ilini rusha kwa shelf huko. And then he just shouted, "Mwizi!" You know, Kenyans, we are a very enthusiastic lot. Any chance of violence, we are given. Pounce on it. Free lunch. You know, I was beaten up. In like five minutes, my my head was swollen. They took everything out, even the stuff I had stolen from another supermarket. They thought they thought it was theirs. My notebook, everything. So they called the manager. He came. And, you know, he looked at those things. He took my notebook. So my notebook had like numbers. You know those earlier notebooks that had numbers of people, like you had space to write phone numbers and names and everything. And he looked at me and he's like, "Kijana, you have a very good handwriting. What what are you doing here?" And I told him, "My parents refused to pay fees for me." "Okay. Where do you live?" "I live in Mlolongo." "So, is this your father's number?" "Yes." "If we call him, will he come?" "Yeah, he should." [Laughter] So, the funny thing about that evening is my dad at that very moment was just from reporting at a police station where my uncle, who was a policeman, was working in Kamukunji that I am missing. So, my dad was in town. Yeah. He was just from reporting that I'm missing. I've been away. Nobody knows where I am. In two minutes, he shows up with his big Ericsson phone in his hand like this. It was a it was a movie scene, man, you know? And he gets in, the shoppers are standing, they're looking at me. My dad is coming in like Rambo. And he and he's like, "This is the life you want?" Yeah. And then he pays for those things that I stole. And then we walk out now. When we get out of the supermarket, he hires a taxi. And he wants me to be put in the boot. But the driver refuses. The driver asks, "Hii ni kijana yako?" "Eh, wacha tu akae tu kwa gari. Tafadhali mzee." Kumbe this guy had bought a nyahunyo, a whip, for the day I would come back home. So he was just waiting for me. Yeah. We got home. He unleashed his new weapon. Ready to pounce on my body again. And it was the first day I stood up to my dad and I told him, "You're not beating me." You're not beating me. And true to it, it was the last day he beat me. You know, I think just being in the streets and seeing all everything I saw, I think it toughened me up a little. You know. And I was at the edge of life because every time something happens, you want to step on me. Every time something you want to step on me. I couldn't take it anymore. I was like, "Fine, you have your demons, but you've given them to me also. Now they are mine. Now I can't I can't I can't take it anymore." You know. And he actually started kufukuzing me in the in the house. Nikaenda nikajificha kwa kwa bafu. And, you know, he just had to come down. And started talking to me civilly like, "Okay, uh, what is wrong with you? What what do you need at home? What is going on?" And I started talking. And I hoped that was the space we would have. But it's not like that was the end of violence at home. It was the end of me him beating me, but the violence at home still kept on. Him and mom were still fighting. In fact, it will surprise you that my mother has just gotten the energy to live on her own this year. Literally three weeks ago as I say this. She's just moved into her own house. It's like she's starting life from scratch. And to me that is liberation. Every child wants to see their parents happy. Subconsciously. Yeah. You want to see your caregivers. These are the first human beings you are living with, ideally, right? You're connected to them in your DNA. You want to see them happy. The second thing is every son, every boy child wants to be like their father. They want to be close to their father. They want to be friends with their father. My dad and I, in fact, we weren't always fighting. In fact, when I was younger, dad was such a good guy. You know, he used to like buy me Taifa Leo newspapers and I'd sit on his lap and, you know, he'd teach me how to read and everything. In fact, at home we loved music so much, both my maternal and paternal families. So dad had this little Sanyo radio. He would place me when I was five, six years, he'd place me on a table, living room table. And put Sanyo the the radio thing on and tell me to dance for him. That became our bonding. You know, way. So every time I saw dad, I knew it's time to dance, you know. I grew up dancing on tables until I was like 12 years old. My brother grew, we used to dance on tables together because now, you know, those days Lingala was more popular than it is today in Kenya and everything. So, for me actually Lingala was like my first love because of its connection with me and dad because we used to sit down to watch music videos. There used to be this channel called STV that used to bring like Lingala music for three hours every Friday evening. So every time it is Friday evening, me and dad would sit together just watch music videos. And he'd tell me all these things about Sijui Pepe Kalle, Koffi Olomide, Yondo Sister, Aurlus Mabele, all these people. And so as as I grew up, I think also for him his traumas also caught up with him, you know. And he became more distant, you know, he was more violent, he drunk more. And then now that that was separation and that was also very painful for me. So I wanted on one side to be close to him and on the other side I wanted my family to just have a peaceful home. So by this time, I was at the edge of edges. I wanted them to just sort these things out. I couldn't imagine my sister growing up in a broken home as I did, and my brother growing up in a broken home as I did. So that is that is like almost you're parenting the whole household. You want people to like talk. They are adults, they are older than you, but they can't get along. So what do you do? It's almost like you're the sober person there. When I when I got to 29 years old, I actually got another bout of depression. And it came with suicidal thoughts. And in fact, at 16, that time I was 16, I also became suicidal. In fact, the third time I ran away from home now, I wanted to go kill myself. Somewhere nobody knew me. So I stole my dad's ATM. I hadn't even used an ATM before. I remember queuing in ATM machine. You know I have very innocent eyes. So I looked at this adult and I told her, you know, my dad is sick and he sent me to withdraw some money for him, but I don't know how to use this thing. Will you show me? Me, I just wanted fair. You know, I wanted 500 shillings, not even much, just 500 to go to Mombasa and rot somewhere and die. You know. But it so happened that I had some schoolmates from Malindi. And so when I got to Mombasa, in fact, when I got to Mto wa Ndei, you know that heat starts hitting you. And you're like, do I really want to die? Am I sure I want to die? So I thought like, eh, kina Tony live in Malindi. Maybe I could try get to them. You know, it's another long story, but I got there eventually and they took me in for that month. So, I'm getting suicidal thoughts, almost 10, 20, 12, 13 years later. I'm 29 years old. Early 2017, I'm getting off a toxic relationship. I do not have a job. My life is a mess. I can't understand why I'm constantly feeling depressed. What's wrong with me? So, I think to myself, you know, in fact, I remember, going home, I was having a meeting with some guy who had employed me and he told me he can't pay me any longer because his business is not doing okay. So, it felt like my life was now just crumbling even further. I went home, I took a shower for like two hours. That's why the water was just running, just running. And I I'm thinking, what do I do with myself when I get out of this place? I was living on the second floor of a building. Ni ruke, niende juu zaidi, nijirushe, niji nijifunge, ninyonge na kamba kwa hii nyumba, nifanye nini? Cause I I don't see any way forward with myself. Just as it was when I was 16 years old, words came to my rescue. So, I got out of the shower, wet as I was. I opened up my laptop. And I went to Facebook. And I wrote, "I have depression. And I'm feeling suicidal today." And that was it. That's also what changed everything. Because, yes, previously I had been writing about gender-based violence because of how I grew up and everything. But depression, eh, that was a very new angle. Very few people, if anything, were talking about it. Even further, men were talking about this thing. So coming out with my story on depression and suicide ideation, changed my life in a way I had never anticipated. So many people came out in support of me. What moved me more were the many other people who got to my DMs saying, "I'm also going through this thing. I'm also going through this thing. But I can't talk about it. I don't know what to do." And so it picked my interest because I wanted to understand why, how is it that as a society we are not talking about these issues? Why are we afraid of talking about them? That's on one side. On the other side, I felt if I didn't understand this thing this time, next time it will come back, it will actually take me down. Because it was a very familiar feeling. You know, I had grown up in it since my teenage years. I wanted to understand it for once, you know. When I went online to open up about my depression, I was looking for a release. The same way, at 16 when I began writing poetry, I was looking for a release. And it was at the time the nearest thing I could get to for me to get that release. And so, you know, from there now, I started writing about my healing journey and what it's like to wake up and feeling like your body imekataa. You know, you just can't do anything. Some days the only thing I would do was spread my bed and do nothing else. Yes, so through that writing about my healing journey, I got to talk to so many people, which made me even more interested in understanding mental health. But at some point, I also really felt cheated. Cheated in the sense that I was 29 years old, and in in all my life, all the education I've been through, nobody had taught me how my mind works. Nobody had taught me the importance of taking care of my mind. They taught me algebra, they taught me where Mandrongo not is. They taught me, you know, very simple things about the biology of a body and stuff, sijui thorax, sijui abdomen, things I've not even been using. But my mind, the thing that's keeping me alive, nobody has ever taught me about that. I was angry, actually. I was really, really angry. And I was like, we are being cheated like what, how how come we are not even being taught about who we are from childhood? Nobody's teaching you about how to understand who you are, how to understand your emotions, how to understand your thoughts, how to process them. Nobody's teaching us that. So we become adults, we are facing things, we think violence is the only way out because that's how we've been conditioned to be. So, or getting into drugs, or sex addiction, or things like that. So, it it it illuminated a new path for me in the sense that beyond wanting to understand how these mental health conditions manifest in somebody's life and how they can affect them. It also gave me a path to my own life. Cause I could go back and figure, oh, okay, dad was going through this because of that. Oh, so this is why he became this. Oh, so for me, this is why this happened, that happened. So it explains A B C D, you know. And that was life-changing. I have had to be very conscious and intentional about understanding myself. Because after seeing nobody was going to do that for me, it also felt like I either do it or somebody else uses me for their own benefit. And what did that make me do? I went and went and read and searched and read and searched and talked to people and talked to all these therapists and psychologists and all these people. I wanted to understand. All right. Why? What I came to to know is your brain is a simulation machine. It repeats patterns. Yeah. Our behaviors become behaviors because they are patterns of things that were done over and over that we picked up from. That's why you see children wearing their parents' shoes. They see their parents do this. We learn from what we see, right? And because I wanted a different life for myself, for my future, for the future communities I wanted to create, it meant I had to stop my brain from simulating the violence I was taught, the violence I was conditioned to, and create a new brain for myself. And that also feels like building another world because of the energy it takes. Now, when you go through something traumatizing as a child, yeah. Your brain could forget it. But your nervous system stores the memory. So that's why you hear somebody is taken to the hospital, maybe their body feels sickly. But there's no disease that is being found. Okay? Trauma responses manifest in very many different ways. Yeah. Some people become anxious, some people overeat, some people overwork. Some people's bodies develop their immune systems go down, so they are prone to illnesses. It's very many things. Some people resort to drug abuse and substance. Some people are also very violent, you know, as a coping mechanism because they're trying to protect themselves. They don't want to be seen as weak. They don't, you know. Is it helping me to go on that healing journey and to be vocal about it? Very, very much. Because I keep affirming myself that that difficult life I started with is not how I will end my life. I said, I had to accept how my parents were, yeah, and their bringing I had. I accepted it. But I didn't own it. Because that wasn't what was supposed to happen. I deserved a healthy home. I deserved healthy parents. I deserved love. And since I couldn't get those things as a child, I had to learn how to give them to myself. Okay? And by doing so, I was rewiring my brain to be safe for me. So that I could be productive for me. So that I could even be productive for other people. Now, because of those experiences as a child, you haven't seen what a healthy relationship looks like. I had it was very hard for me to keep healthy relationships as well. I struggled especially in my 20s because trusting was such a difficult thing. My dad being the person I should have trusted first, hurt me most. So, I wasn't, you know, with mom it was confusing because sometimes I felt like she would have protected me, but then I came to understand she couldn't because she was also trying to protect herself and it was just too much going on. So you can't be healthy, you can't be there for your child the way you want to be there for your child. Yeah. But my mother, I think at some point she noticed that I had been struggling emotionally. And in fact, even, you know, previously in my teenage life, she she used to shout a lot at me. Then as as I grew older, she became a bit more gentle. I think she understood that I had been struggling. Dad, him, everything just passed him. He was just lost in his own world trying to get by. Everything has to go in his own way. You have to stick to his script. Anything outside that means war. Yeah. And so in my 20s now you're meeting girls and your body is feeling excited. And nobody has ever taught you anything about sex. Nobody has ever taught you about even the church we go to. Do you know how far we are from the pastor up there? Very far. He's on the pulpit. You don't know anything about this guy's life. You don't even know if the pastor struggles. So, where is vulnerability? Nobody's really reaching out to you as a young person to say, you know what, you're actually not alone struggling with these emotions. Your parents don't talk to you about their problems. The pastor doesn't talk to you about what he's going through. People look so okay. They're like, they're all pretending they're fine. So, where do you take your struggling emotions? It's a struggle. And I realized, no, society is lying to me. Everybody is lying to me. And you know what, as a first step, I'll be the first man to start talking. So, I'll talk and I won't care whether I'll be judged because I'm a guy, I'm an African man. You know, people look at you in certain ways because it's you, you want to be like a woman. It's only women who express themselves like that and stuff like that. But I'm like, if these things I'm doing will help me live longer, a happier, healthier life. Yeah, man. It's not a mistake that women generally live longer than men. It's not a mistake. Outside how physically testing men's lives have been, it's also because we keep all that pain inside. It's not healthy. You know, for example, even geography, why is a salty water lake salty? Because it only has an inlet, it doesn't have an outlet. A fresh water lake is fresh because it has both inlets and outlets. Your heart has veins that pump blood in and pump blood out. If it was only inlet, we wouldn't even survive, right? Our brains need air. People faint because air oxygen is out from the brain. You you collapse. So essentially, space is basic to everything. If you do not have space, you do not have life. And me, growing up in that kind of a lack of space in my home, I couldn't talk. I could not imagine spending the rest of my life quiet. Now, as I grow older, now I'm an adult, I am a man. Everybody else apart from my whole home now expects me to even be more quiet. That is a death I was not ready to take, my friend. So, yeah, I struggled through my relationships, and even work because, you know, when you do not know how to express yourself, you wouldn't know how to say when you're unhappy. People will step on you. I didn't know how to keep boundaries because as a child my boundaries were overstepped. It took me so long to learn these things, to learn how to say, "I need this. I need help." You know, to learn how to say, "I need support. I am not happy with this. I'm not happy with that. Can I get assistance?" I it took me so long to learn that. Now, the way I was conditioned and very many boys are socialized, you grow up thinking men know everything because apparently dad is the one calling the shots at home. Men are the ones controlling resources everywhere you go. So, you actually think that a man asking for help, a man asking for directions is a bad thing to say. And because of that, it's a sense of light. I, you know, I, I felt like I think, I think I'm different. I think, I think that light within me wants to express itself. I think there's so much, you know, by the way, one of the reasons I started writing was because I had so much pain, I thought if I didn't express it, I was going to die. And so, over the years, I am just incredibly thankful for choosing me, for choosing to do life the way I believe life should be, to be should be led. And that is expressing myself, because without that, I wouldn't be here. When I sat my dad down and he told me that he couldn't come to me with his problems because I think he's weak. It was the first time I also humanized him. It was the first time I looked at him from, from outside, from a bit of afar. You know, there's a quote that says, "If you want to look at the whole picture, look outside the frame. If you're in the frame, you can't see the whole picture. Get outside the frame." So, I had to leave my emotions for a while and, and look at this man and ask myself, why did he say that statement? Where was that coming from? And so, I went back and I wanted to understand his childhood from a genuinely curious place. And realizing he also grew up in a violent place. And his father was a polygamist. His father, my grandpa even fought for the second, in the Second World War in Burma. And a lot of those African men who fought for the British had serious post-traumatic stress that manifested in their lives differently. Some became completely redundant, they couldn't do anything. Some became struggling alcoholics. Some, some their families just wear that away. And that's almost what happens to mine as well. Because grandpa with his drinking, violence, you know, and then our homes being very patriarchal. If something is wrong with the man, the whole house goes down, you know? And so understanding my dad from that point of view helped me know where to start, because I knew if I was to heal, I had to understand him. If I was to know where to go, I would have to know where he's been. And, and, and that's, that's the biggest thing that changed, because now I could tell, it was because of what he saw. He also had a lot of childhood abandonment issues that he was very subconscious about. And so, it was funny because now I started looking at my dad as also a child who was in pain, you know? And it didn't excuse what he was doing, but I understood it. I understood, but I didn't excuse. What that gave me was a bit more emotional intelligence, because now I knew how to protect myself when he would act out. I could even advise my mother better, you know? I think me going out to look for information is one of the things that has also healed my family to some extent. It has made my brother know a couple of things. We are very close with my sister. I tell her about these things all the time. It changed my journey. It changed me because I finally found a place to start. I could write poetry, I could write articles, I could write things that would make people feel stuff, you know? And that's exactly where I started. So, I, I'd go to campus because I couldn't go to class. I'd go to the computer lab and I would read and read and read and write and write and write. So, I started like sharing my poetry online, and I met other poets and we started meeting up, you know? I performed in school and I got opportunities to start performing in town like Nairobi. And slowly by slowly, people start like engaging with myself, with my work, with my poetry. And that gave me a lot of courage actually. And my mom really supported me through it. But then as I grew older now, the dream of becoming a journalist certainly suddenly felt so small. Because I felt I, I had a bigger voice than simply sitting at a news editor desk somewhere, editing stories, you know? I felt like not only now did I want to tell people's stories in a newspaper, I wanted people to write stories about me. I wanted to go to those newsrooms as invited guests. And I said, it's going to happen, by the way. I manifested that life. I said, it's going to happen. Many people would get back to me saying they, they're looking for a place to get help, they're looking for information. So, I set up a 200-member mental health support group online. It's just a WhatsApp group. I made a call on my socials and people reached out, like 200 people reached out. So, I opened two WhatsApp groups and I told them, "Guys, look, nobody knows everything here. So, we are developing a community. A community that is like a village. All of us are here, all of us are important. All of us are creating content. Live as if you're living in a village, the way you'd want your village to run." And that's how it became. So, when you need information, when you're struggling with something, you put it there and somebody else reaches out to you. Because it was incredibly difficult for me to reach to every individual who was texting me, was inboxing me. It was overwhelming. And so, as that was happening, I took a trauma healing course. Yeah. That would enable me to be a certified trauma healing facilitator or counselor. And through that, I support especially people who are battling with childhood traumas. And we are so many. You'd be surprised. We are so many from CEOs to fundi wa viatu. People battling with their relationship with their father, relationship with their mother, relationship with their siblings, relationship with their old tribe, like things people are holding in their hearts that they're struggling with. They don't have a language to express. I think the fact that I did the emotional labor all these years was setting me up for this moment. And every time people talk to me about this, what they're going through, and I tell them, "Okay, you need some sessions with me, we, we need to take you through." I, I find it so easy because I speak a language they understand. I have words for things they've been battling to express for years and some of them are 60 years old, some of them are 15, some of them are 26. And you know what? Sometimes it feels like sitting outside the earth and looking at the earth rotating and just wondering, "Whoa, those marvelous human beings, man, they've been through pain. Man, they've been through pain," you know? I also have set up like a support, a safe space for men who have been sexually abused, which is another long story that I didn't share. My, one of the purposes I think I have in life is to support men to humanize themselves, you know? We've grown up in a world where your idea of God comes in the shape of a man. Right? The idea of the head of the home comes in the shape of a man. The idea of a leader, all the big leaders you've seen probably in all your life globally have come in the shape of a man. But this same man, you can't talk to him. You can't see him. You can't see his emotions. This dad, this priest, this politician, this president, you can't reach him. He looks okay, he's rich, he looks wealthy, he looks all well put together, but you can't see his emotions. He only expresses himself when he's extremely happy or extremely sad. When he's extremely sad, he's angry, he's violent. And he's extremely happy, he's with women and alcohol and doing all kinds of nasty stuff. So, in the subconscious of a young boy, you're living in the negative energy because you do not have communities of healthy men around you. They're not there. Even in church today, those people you can just count them. You can count them, brother. You know? And I'm like, I the same life force that God created me with, I want to create life for these communities where men can rethink themselves. Men can re-see and start to imagine themselves differently. The things you are told about who a man is supposed to be, all of them were created. It was somebody else's idea. So, you can have your own idea of who a man is supposed to be or who you want to be as a man. Right? And I said, oh, you know, they said this, they gave me this, give me this, I will give them this. Because I want healthier communities. When we sort out the issues men have with themselves, security will improve, governance will improve, relationships will improve, urban development will improve, nearly everything will improve. We rely on women on emotional labor because we were separated from our emotions from a young young age. It was beaten out of us. Don't cry. Be hard, meaning so you become an adult and all of a sudden you're in a relationship and this woman expects you to show your emotions. You don't know how to show your emotions. You don't know how to open up. And like even today I can't just walk up to a guy and tell him, "Yo, open up a little." There's no system. They don't have it. You know? So, my stories are what give men that chance to re-see themselves like, "Guys, we are human beings just like the women around us. Whatever whatever you want to do, just humanize yourself. You don't have to go with what society is telling you." You know also now even the thing about crying. There are some quarters where, you know, men have been made to feel like if you don't cry, you're not doing it enough. You're not being vulnerable enough. You know? People have different ways of expressing pain. As long as they know, they have that space to express pain in whatever manner is comfortable to them, that is what vulnerability is. And we cannot be vulnerable according to social standards if we have not learned how to be vulnerable to our own selves. What are men doing? What are we doing as peers to say, let's come together and do something different. But we can't do that because individually we are struggling with things we don't talk about. You get? So, we can't get together. Women struggle but they get together. That's how they are able to move. We struggle, we can't get together because we fear each other. "Eh, kivu ataniona aje? Eh, nikienda kwa Brayo ni mshoo, eh, eti twende tukakunywe hii story tuishe." You know? So, I'm like, I want to create a different life where the boys that are growing up right now and men who are willing to have a different life can give themselves a chance to heal. I was recently featured on the BBC. Let me tell you, you know, like they they translate these stories to different languages. And, man, men from South America, men from the deepest places of this earth reaching out to me saying, you know what? I do not think I have the courage to express myself like you do in my own community. This is not just an African man's thing. This is a global man's thing. Men are struggling all over the world to talk, just talking. You know? The impact is, I have like 19-year-olds reaching out to me saying, you know, I'm struggling with masturbation, I'm struggling with sex addiction, I'm struggling with substance abuse. I was raped when I was 19, I was raped when I was this. In fact, there's a story of a guy who reached out to me and he told me that he was sodomized by friends, people he knew. They sodomized him, robbed him, and he got so mad, so angry. He hired goons to go kill them. And he told me, he's sure they can't do such a thing to another person because they are rotting in their graves. That is one story. Every day I'm getting stories. Do you know how much pain that is that people are holding? A guy, you wouldn't even know, very smartly dressed, [unclear] you'd think, oh, because he has a job, because he has a car, maybe even a family. People reach out to me saying, you know, this thing happened to me when I was 16. I'm struggling in my marriage right now. I can't I can't I can't share this with my wife because I fear how she's going to see me. You know? Boys who are abused when they were kids. They're stuck. Pastors reach out to me. They stand on pulpits, my brother, but they're in so much pain. They can't speak with in their congregations. And you know, that's why like my work has changed how I see the world, man. Today, even when I think of church, it's not what I grew up knowing. When I think of church, I feel every home should be a church. Every home, every space, every space should be a safe space. Everywhere we go, we have to develop trauma-informed communities where we can humanize one another, where the first instinct when I see you and you're in trousers and a shirt, I'm not boxing you, "Ah, you're a guy," so I want to treat you like this because of the traumas other people other men have taken me through. You I I I need to have that safety to feel that I can heal from things I go through so that I don't keep replicating it into my other relationships. Our bodies carry our emotions. Our bodies carry our truths. Our bodies carry our secrets. And all our love, all our pain. You have to take care of your body. It is the secret of health. Take care of your body. Check what you're eating, check who you're hanging around. Check the kind of work, how much rest you're getting. Check what you're feeding your mind. Take care of your body. And I understand we are living in a world of so many inequalities. In fact, some people, many people in this world do works that are very undignifying. Communities are everything. We do not heal in isolation. And how that works is, there is something in science called neuroception. So neuroception is the ability of your nervous system to distinguish whether a person or a place or a situation is safe or unsafe for you. Okay? Now, why healthy relationships make us thrive is because our nervous systems are connecting. When our nervous systems connect in a healthy way, our bodies are like electricity. When we connect nicely, we thrive, we lighten up. So that's why when you stay in healthy community relationships and communities, people who've been living in those situations are happier, they're healthier, they also live longer. Okay? And your your immune system also is very strong. You're less prone to illnesses. When your nervous system is not in a place to read situations appropriately, it means you're probably living in trauma. So that means, that's that explains why some people find themselves in abusive relationships over and over again because their nervous system is weak. They can't coordinate, this is a good place, this is not a good place for me. Okay? So healthy communities are the way out. Okay? And I understand people have different personalities, some people like me sometimes I like, yeah, I'm an introvert, I like being staying staying on my own and stuff like that. But on the larger context, make sure you have communities of people who you support and people who support you. Just as it's usually the hardest question anybody asks me, the advice I would give somebody who feels they are on the edge. Because myself, I had also given up, you know. I I I I don't like giving motivational quotes about, create some hope and keep keep on going. You're going to feel like giving up. This is real life. This is real life. You're going to go through things that will make you feel this is not worth it. You know? And I usually just tap back to what I did. I don't tell people what they should do. I tell I tell people what I did. I reached out to the last ounce of light that was left within me. That's what I did. Sometimes, because home was unbearable, I ran away from home. So I ran away from the trouble. It saved my life. And you know, I can't tell that to a parent and a child situation because that is like bad advice, you know, you know? And those situations exist because there is no space. So can we create those spaces where parents and children can speak in their homes? Because children run away from home because of lack of that space, right? I I I wrote when it was too much for me, when I was on the edge, you know? I'm so lucky to have a a group of male friends whom I've known for the last 10 years, who have held me together through these issues. And so they, when I came out with my stories on depression, they didn't understand what depression was. Nobody in my circles knew what depression was. But what did my friends do? They would come to my house, male friends, eh? They would wash my house, they would cook for me, they would open my curtains. We have a DJ in there who's also a banker. So we would come to my house and he'd do live mixes in the house, just to liven me up. So, sometimes we are afraid we will be misunderstood because people won't understand. But people who love you don't have to understand everything. They just know you're not okay. Okay, how can we support you? We will show up in the ways we can. You know? Can we create those kind of relationships, those kind of communities? That's what has saved my life. You know, there's a phrase in psychology we say, "Trauma that is not transformed is transferred." If you don't transform your pain into something else, you're going to transfer it. So that's what has been happening in many of our homes. What I would wish specifically because this is what created a lot of pain for me is that parents to just know their children are on their side. Your children are on your side. Your children don't need to see you as a perfect parent. Your children you don't need to to be rich so that your children can see that you work so hard to take them to these places and these places. No. Sometimes children just want to be held. They just want to be affirmed. You know what? You're a bright kid. You know what? Ah, you became number 16, number 17 out of 20. You can do better. Keep going. Not every time fingers, fingers, fingers, fingers. Every time kiboko, kiboko, kiboko. It's not working. It's not been working. Then we create adults who are also angry. It's the same thing when we were in high school in boys' schools. Umeingia form one, a form four is bullying you. When you get to form four, you do the same thing to a form one. It's the same thing. It's those are vicious cycles of violence. We have to stop it. If we are to live in this world sustainably, we can't keep going on with all this mayhem. Our families are dying, you. There is a chance for all of us to heal. If it happened for me, it can happen for you. It seemed like my life was down and out. I had given up so many times on myself. But if I got here, it means there is space. It means there is chance. And how that chance happened, I also gave it to myself. So give yourself a chance. Go out, look for information, call people. And you know what? It might look like very shaming in the beginning because you're afraid, because you don't you fear to be judged and all that. But do you know what? It will only end at judgment. This is your life. Take charge. Give your yourself a chance to heal. Like I did. And I'm so happy that I gave myself a chance to heal because I wouldn't be here for sure.
