"Undoing My Father’s Damage-Onyango Otieno (Rix poet)"
Stats: Views: 51,761; Likes: 933; Comments: 175.
Speaker: Onyango Otieno (Rixpoet)

Onyango Otieno (Rixpoet): When I was five years old, my daddy would pick me up and put me on the table in our living room, switch on his Sanyo radio and tell me to dance for him. So I grew up listening to a lot of Alus Mabele, Yondo Sister, Diblo Dybala, typically and many other musicians mostly from the DRC. Nearly every evening we had walks with take when he'd hold my hand as we visited his friends homes having teen almost every house as they chit chatted about politics and life and everything else that was happening around them. He used to buy me Typhae newspapers and set me on his lap, teach me how to read Swahili. I enjoyed watching him become the man he was. And as a matter of fact, many people don't know this, my dad was also a very flexible gymnast, and he used to be a school referee as well. And because we were both football fans, I mean, watching your dad officiating a match really felt like you conquered the world. My dad was also a teacher. And that meant wherever he went looking for greener pastures, the schools he taught in, we had to move with him. There are other fantastic things about Huruma and this particular time of my life. We loved football. And I remember a particular chant that used to celebrate Kenya's Harambee Stars that went something aching too. In fact, if there are any of you guys out there who used to chant that thing, please look for me. We need to relive our childhood. There are more things that happened to me that really changed my life. Just as I was turning 10, one day, my dad came home this evening. I was working on my homework, and as usual, the bar downstairs is noisy. I'm trying to compete with the voices in my head. We lived in a single room that had a very small corridor for a kitchen. And this particular day, my dad set to look for a book which I later learned was a novel that had been authored by Bill Cosby. Bill Cosby in 1998 was huge. In fact, sometimes I think I would equate to I'd equate it to holding a novel that has been written by probably Trevor Noah today. Meaning it was an expensive book but the stanzas of the time. And so he had borrowed this book from a student he tutored those years. And we had a lot of educational boring books at home. In fact, coming back home felt like going to another school because my dad was obsessed with grades and reading specifically, not to increase your intelligence, but to to pass exams. So he starts looking for this book through his boxes. Box by box, box by box. And you know, in if something is not in a four world room, it probably isn't there. Yeah. Then he got to a point in that evening that he got to ask a question. A question that I wasn't fully prepared for how it would change my life. And he said, amani homicidable. I wasn't ready. No, dad, I haven't taken the book on uh can the house help steal a book cinderella. Now, when an African parent asks you those questions, there are no other answers you can tell. Well, for sure, you can't imagine your mother stealing a book. You don't know if the house of reads. And for sure, for sure, you're the only person who is into books like that in that house. So, and as it was in many times, suspicions moved into accusations so fast. toyokitabu. I only remembered seeing that book once. It was white, and I can't quite remember the words that had been written in the forward. I didn't like reading that much. In fact, bode mass was just enough chaos for me. I just wanted again to be a 10-year-old child. My father not convinced that I was telling him the truth, and I mean, I was a fairly cheeky boy. Sometimes it's still five shillings here, 10 shillings there, you go buy your muthura, your patco, your Britannia biscuits, which I miss so much. But stealing a novel really felt like a bank heist because where was I taking a whole novel with like what, 300, 400 pages? Why? It's too much. Yeah. So, my dad walked out of the house and going to the balcony and by those years we had our mother's would hang their clothes with these telephone copper wires, the black ones, yeah, the ones we see when we are traveling. And so there are a couple of rolls just at the corner of the balcony that was just outside our house. And so he went and he cut some of the wire and came back to the house. I was accustomed to being beaten up. In fact, to some extent, being beaten was normal. I always expected it when my father was not happy, when my mom was not happy with me. So I had accepted that is gonna be always part of my life. But this night, things were a little different. When he returned, he stripped me off my clothes. And started lashing on my back. My dad would beat you with his soul. And sometimes about that night, I think he was also trying to beat all our ancestors out of my body. Because he was angry, and he was determined to make me admit that I had taken this book because I was the only person in that house who dealt with books like that. toyokitabu that's jachiko kitabu toyokitabu that's just quirky taboo. I was really tiny bodied, and in about 15 minutes, I began feeling my body disintegrating. I'm bleeding, I'm screaming, I'm crying, I'm sweating. My mom is watching helplessly. My uncle couldn't do anything. People were so used to screams in our house, they couldn't just come to help anymore. So, my little child intelligence told me, you know, man, you could actually die tonight. So, for today, just lie. Just lie you took the book. Lie. So, yes, and I can't quite remember, I can't remember where I said I took it. He looked at me with very angry eyes. And he said, I'll do something to you that you'll never forget. As if he'd planned all this, he walked out, came back with the size of rope. I'm still sobbing on the floor. And he ties my hands with the size of rope. He walks into the kitchen and comes back with a 5-liter jericho that we used to store kerosene in. And a matchbox. He looks at me again, lowers his body to my level, opens the jerichon that was full of kerosene, pours some of it onto the jericho lead. Looks at me again. I'm still sobbing. Smear some of that kerosene on my upper hand. Strike strikes off the matchstick and places the flame upon my hand. My brain blocked out the physical pain I felt in that very moment. I can't quite remember it. What I do know is I couldn't walk for two weeks. And like, I can't remember what I told my friends when I went back to school that had happened to me. People went on with their lives. I went back to my routine, homework in the evening, dad going about his business. But on top of that, I had felt like something had been broken inside me. Something to this date, I still don't have a language to express. I felt like I had been violated in a spiritual way, in a way that there's no words to put. And so, the world started feeling so unsafe for me, and I kept wondering, if that's something my father would do to me, how about the rest of the world that's full of strangers? What's gonna happen to me? I'm only 10. And that is about the time I began struggling with anxiety. Very quietly, but the world within me was just screaming all the time. I stopped playing with my friends. I started having trouble trusting people. And my grades also suffered to some amount. When I was 15, the pressure was catching up, and I did have my first bout with depression. I was a Form 1 student, and I remember a very particular time when the zeal to read just disappeared from me. I was dealing with abandonment issues, and the school we were in, there were so many violent things also happening, and so I had triggers almost in every corner of my life. So, one year later, I remember a time when things just shut down. I stopped going to class. I was wandering about in the school. I stopped bathing. In fact, there's a streak of a time when I went for nine straight days without showering. And I was in the football team. So, every evening, go to the field, come back to my dome tower vaseline cologne class. I stopped doing laundry, so I would steal clothes from my friends. My box wasn't lockable, so, I mean, I'll just dump the clothes in there. There was nothing to steal. And it extended to now stealing money, which eventually I was caught and expelled from school. In that period of being at home during expulsion, it's also the time I discovered what I wanted to be. I felt I had grown up in so much silence, and the silence wasn't just peaceful, it was really painful. My mom and dad still fought a lot. I'm a teenager. So much life is happening within me, but I can't express it. So, I was still being beaten up, and I started running away from home. The first time I ran, 2004 April, just about the time Sean Paul was coming to Kenya. To a family friend's home, and my mom easily traced me there. The second time, I walked from Lolongo, which is where we used to stay, to Nairobi's central business district, just about 30 kilometers. On foot, took me about four hours. Got to the streets of town, became a street boy for a while. Woodshop lived from supermarkets until one time when somebody busted me, and I was kindly administered with mob justice. I'm here because I clearly survived. The third time, I was suicidal. And I stole my dad's ATM. I wanted to go and die somewhere nobody knew me. And I remember going to specifically withdraw just 500 shillings because I didn't need money. I just needed to go somewhere and nobody knew me, to go keep myself there. Luckily enough, at the time, I did have friends far, far, far in Malindi, who I thought to myself, when I got to one day when that coastal warms warms it starts hitting your face, yeah. I was like, do you really want to die? You know, like, is it that serious? You know? That is a serious thing, you guys. So, I was like, uh, maybe they could help out. Because in essence, it wasn't that I really wanted to die. I just wanted the pain to stop. So, it's a long story, but eventually I did get to Malindi. And Malindi is very special to me because it was a sign of redemption for me. Well, first of all, because I first saw the Vasco da Gama pilla, which was only in jitsi books. And the Indian Ocean, because we only drew it, man, and here it is for me, live life, you know? It's a big deal for a 16-year-old. In 2015, my my parents went through another nasty fight. And this time, I wanted things to change. Took them into my hands. So, I called my parents for a meeting. Which is suicidal in an African home. I sat with my father down. He said very many unprintable things about everything. But there's one particular statement he said that also changed my life, and I quote him. I don't come to you with my problems because you think I'm weak. That changed it for me. Because I wondered, what must be going on in his mind for him to think of life like that? Doesn't he think that, I mean, I was 26 until seven, all those years I've lived with him, I could see all his weaknesses. Wasn't it obvious? And that is the time I began my healing journey. Because now I realize this person is wounded in certain ways, and I've been carrying all these burdens that are not really mine, but his. And so, it's the first time I actually start humanizing my father. To just want to understand him, without excusing the pain he'd taken me and my mom through. Two years later, in early 2017, I'm coming off depression. I have lost two peers, friends of mine, one who died by global blood pressure, and another one who took away his life. Really young guys. And I'm coming off a toxic situationship, not even a relationship, it was a situationship that was already toxic. Tough life. And I'm thinking to myself, man, why is life so hard? You know? I'm thinking of my friends, and I'm like, wherever club boss is, he's not thinking about fair, or rent, or an argument with his girlfriend. He's resting. Why can't I join him? You know? And those suicidal thoughts came back to me, really, really strongly. So, I remember one day coming back home, thinking, okay, where am I gonna get rent for this month? Things look so bleak for me. And these thoughts were very familiar. These feelings are very familiar. There's just a tiredness to life, and, you know, just feeling so heavy. My brain really felt like a ton of something that was just, you know, put in there. So, I remember to taking a two-hour long shower. I'm thinking to myself, what am I gonna do when I get out of here? As it was when I was 16, writing came to my rescue. I left the shower naked and wet, the water still running. Walked to my laptop, opened it up. And I made a Facebook post, January 18, 2017. Guys, I'm depressed. I'm suicidal. And I know it looks like I'm always the strong one, but people like me, too, break. And I was affirming myself that I'm not gonna take away my life. The first thing is, I was doing that for me. But the thing that changed for me as well was the fact that so many people would resonate with my words, and they would say, you know what? Me too. And it was even harder for me because the inboxes and the DMs that came through, people expressing that they're going through the same thing right now, but they don't even have the language to express it. And the artist in me, the creative in me would then get curious like, how is it that so many of us are going through the same thing, but nobody's talking about it? So, I start searching information about mental health and suicide and all these things. And I can't find African stories around the same issues. And I say, okay, I will document my whole my own healing journey. On some days, I wake up, I only spread my bed, and that's it for the whole day. And other days, I wake up, I can only do the dishes, and that's it for the whole day. I was lucky to have male friends, actually, who would come to my house and wash my house and do laundry for me sometimes and cook for me sometimes, and we had a friend who's a DJ, so we'd come to the house and just like do live mixes, and then they'd go home in the evening. I was loved. I got into therapy, and through it, I discovered so many things about myself. And I came across so many words like depression, like anxiety, like post traumatic stress, which was just so humongous things those years. But it was the fact that I could name my pain. That gave me hope. There is a way out. And on top of that, I did a course on trauma counseling that would later help me support other people going through the same things I did. Now, if there's anything I want people to remember from my words, it's that, first of all, so many people are going through the pain you're going through. And when you've been through trauma, the pain in your mind tells me, this is the biggest thing that's happening anywhere in the world. So, there is some kind of isolation to it, and you feel like you're the only person who's going through it. And I realized that the more I shared myself, the more I spoke up, the more I related to many other people who are going through the same pain I was going through. And I say this usually, and especially to men. Our upbringing, our conditioning, our socialization, we are told, toughen it up. Don't say you're a man. It's supposed to be hard. But then it's not a mistake that we have higher rates of successful suicide that point to men dying more. So, really, we were really not really meant to toughen up. We weren't meant to bottle things inside ourselves. We were meant to express them. We were meant to talk. We were meant to laugh. We were meant to express ourselves. In the trauma sessions that I do hold with my friends who are my clients, if there's a discovery I keep seeing is that so many of us are living with so much shame about the pain that we didn't cause on ourselves. So much shame that we are afraid to really live in our truth. And the thing I want to say about that is this. All of you and all of me, we deserve joy. We deserve love. We deserve friendship. No matter how much the affliction you've been through as a person, as a community, as a family, if you are willing, if you want to get better, it's possible. I used to tell myself when I was younger, when I grow up, I want to find peace. If I don't find it, I will create it. And hell yes, I'm doing it. And I'm being the example to many other people around me that your trauma does not have to define you. I am defined by love. We are brilliant. We are beautiful. We are joyous people, but also we can be free.

Audience: [Applause] [Music]
