"071 Andrew Kibe and the 28 Commandments of Journeying into Wealth, Health and Respect"
Stats: Views: 91,499; Likes: 1,727; Comments: 407.
Speaker: Andrew Kibe

Andrew Kibe: You you see in in 2025 if I see a married guy Yeah. I know there's something wrong with that guy. Mhm. Yeah. He has not processed

Joab Ogato: information enough. Mhm. So what is the reason for marriage then? Uh

Andrew Kibe: delusion. The society right now does not support marriage. There was a time he did but now he doesn't. Don't

Joab Ogato: you think we need culture? I don't

Andrew Kibe: think about the things to do with children and culture and what they will get. That's not the mind of a man. What's in the mind of a man? I mean just better yourself every day. The work of raising the kids belongs to the mother. Yes. Okay. If the father is in the picture, his influence is in that that setup. Yes. Then the kids are going to grow well. So the mother is the one who's supposed to know what's what's going on with the kid. You as a father, you're like a godhead. The work is to be up there and solve problems on a very general level. God is a narcissist. He enjoys the suffering of the man through the woman. Okay. Bro, the first guy

Joab Ogato: and the first Chile and your we didn't even wait till chapter two. Chapter one, you guys. This guy has already been you cried your whole life. Yes, I cried. Why did you

Andrew Kibe: cry? The last time I cried was 2011. Why were you crying in one of my chile died? Okay. Then I was like, [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] what am I doing? Emotions are useless for a man. They have no value. You cannot help people. Before the show starts, I have an apology to make. The audio in the first 30 minutes of this video is horrible. We simply forgot to press record on the audio recorder. Hopefully, you'll bear with us. Enjoy the show. [Music] Are you an uncle? Uh, yeah, of course. Many times over. Uh, do do your nephews or nieces? No. No. I I I I don't do uh those things those things that for guys like me from Shags who have connect I don't see the value of those kind of relationships. Mhm. Did when you grew up you didn't have like a what do you call it? You didn't have a a family you know the way they say a village is it was it was there it was it was very strong. Okay. Yeah. So those my father, my mother, my sisters and me and then there was my my mother's sisters and the husbands because my dad came from, you know, this was only child. Yeah. So we would now go to have bashes with those people, you know, until the women became crazy. Yeah. So I'm only wondering here then why you have a problem with being what those people are for you? I mean with who? I don't know. With your nephews and nieces. I

Joab Ogato: mean we we don't talk with anyone anymore but as he walan why was that? I mean it's just the devil. The devil came in the details. Okay. We started listening to the women.

Andrew Kibe: So the women started leading and when women lead every woman wants to lead because they don't understand what leadership is and they are just fighting each other and follow and then there's also this thing called um taking America UK for school. That's the fastest way to kill a family. Yeah. True.

Joab Ogato: Yeah.

Andrew Kibe: Is for people to leave this country and go and try and be something else on the other side. Mhm. So there was nothing to hold on to here because all

Joab Ogato: of us were just leaving. Yeah. No identity to who's going to continue the the bes. Yeah. Nobody. Is that why you came back? No, that's not why I came back. Come

Andrew Kibe: on. I

Joab Ogato: mean, you probably came back to try and you know connection. Um to be very honest, I've been asked that question many times. Mhm. I don't need you

Andrew Kibe: to answer what you told the other folks in relation to the family. No, not to the family. Mhm. I wasn't back for family. I would I I wouldn't do that. Mhm. It had to be puny on me. I I I I felt like I had to come back and I couldn't tell you why. Mhm. Yeah. Because in my head when my YouTube was cancelled Yeah. I was like, "Okay, I'm being redirected now again." Yeah. What is the next move? Yeah. The next move is to do what? Is to leave. Yeah. Was that like you hitting a reset button? Would you say that? I wouldn't say reset. It's just the next thing to do. You see the way I went to America. Mhm. Now it was a time to go back to Kenya. Yeah. And it was like when I went to America, I wasn't

Joab Ogato: going to do YouTube. Yeah. I didn't know I was

Andrew Kibe: going to become YouTube successful there. Yeah. So I So I can't tell you that I planned to go do this. No. The same way when

Joab Ogato: I came back to Kenya, I knew I knew Africa was what I wanted to

Andrew Kibe: do. Mhm. The platform that I've been building. Yeah. But I couldn't tell you. It was

Joab Ogato: like 10% of what I could see. 90% I can't see. Yeah. You met many Kenyans in America when you were there. Do you feel you know

Andrew Kibe: I I consider you a successful Kenyan and in this way you built your life here. You went to America. You built your life in America and you came back to Kenya. I feel like there's tons of Kenyans who are in America struggling to come back home comfortably to turn their mind around to decide to come back home. Would you consider yourself successful in that way? Oh yeah, very successful. I mean leaving America after 2 and a half years that's that's

Joab Ogato: crazy. Who does that? And then you're coming back. You don't have a solid thing

Andrew Kibe: you're coming back for. You're just coming back to do the

Joab Ogato: same thing that you did when you left here. So, you know

Andrew Kibe: how people when we leave, you go to America, you don't know what you're going to do. Just know that you have to go there and be successful. Yeah. You're like, I'm not going back to where you come from. I come from I come from is the name of my village. What's the name of the constituency? Ah, man. Northang North. Yeah. So in your head you're like I'm not going back to the pitler of North Mirango. Well I think they say you leave home. You're like hey bro I'll do whatever it takes but I have to wash DS. Let me wash DS. Yeah. So that's the thing. Even with me when I was living Kenya I was going to American holiday. Yeah. To come back after a month. I came back after two and a half years or two years or something. So you basically had an extended holiday and with within that time you had some sort of semblance of

Joab Ogato: success. Exactly. Because I was able to survive there. I was able to thrive. I traveled in America. Mhm. I I met a lot of people. I went for rugby I think twice. Yeah. Yes. I did a couple of things that I on my bucket list. I went I watched Moto GP. Yeah. Yeah. So, I I did a couple of things that I have always wanted to do and then that let's put let's put up a photo of K next to his 50. Let's do that, please. That's what's up. Yeah, that's I would say it was it was very it was just

Andrew Kibe: the next thing to do. Mhm. So um you you talked here about you know me I'm one of those you always seem to have a problem with what is your problem with problem and I'm talking about western So no way. So people like I don't know these people. Yes. Would you rate? Um there's this guy from Western. He's an MP with shaggy hair. I forget his name. Let's put up a picture of that guy. This guy. Salasia. Yeah. Salasia. Yeah. Mhm. Yeah. Okay. They come to town and now they want to do everything they think the people of town are doing. Yeah. But then how they differentiate that this is this is the the proper person to be with and this is the my life. I mean for me it doesn't matter. I just like making fun of them. Yeah. Because I'm watching from a distance. These are these are my buddies. Yeah. So I'm not trying to help her friends from they have to water shower is clean. Let's put a picture of very nice clean.

Joab Ogato: So that water mentality has

Andrew Kibe: to leave you because it's very dangerous. What is the watch mentality? It's the one that I must win. Okay. So every game you play with that guy, he must win. Whether he has to kill you or put you under the bus, he must win. Mhm. And you see life is not about master. Life is about you enjoying the game. Mhm. Because master is is master has is very empty competitiveness and being comparative is a nice thing. Yeah.

Joab Ogato: But among peers. Okay. Yeah. So that we can help each other grow. Yeah. Yeah. We do that. But outside here we competing this war. Yeah. Yeah. So that

Andrew Kibe: must win mentality has these people. When when was the first time you came to Nairobi? Oh man, the first time I came to Nairobi was in class 8. 2003. 20 on a trip. Yeah, you in class 8. Yeah. 2003. 2003. I was I I'd already gone to India and I came back. Mhm. I I was working. Was I working? I said working. No, I was hustling. Yeah. I was a pool player. Yeah. So I was going from pool hole to pole playing pool. Yeah. class. I remember coming to Nairobi and seeing and we need to overpass. I remember this guy said to me, I was so proud of myself, man. I remember seeing KCC. We came for music festivals and I think we won or something and there's this guy. So, I was in class 8 and then there this

Joab Ogato: class 4 guy, they've closed school now in I was in a school in Kiss. Yeah, it's called Aranga. So, he put up a picture of guys. So I the guy shows up so he comes to KC man.

Andrew Kibe: I'm like this guy is so young but he was able to travel all the way from GC to Nairobi by himself and he found his way here man. I was like flabbergasted. I was it was like a maze. It was oh man

Joab Ogato: I was like this must be something

Andrew Kibe: big you know I

Joab Ogato: mean how how is he able to to do this by himself? He was an Arabic guy but decided to go to study in because the parents believed in that school. So you when you came you saw a wall what is it called

Andrew Kibe: a concrete jungle. That's what I saw. Then the next time that I properly came to Nairobi was in after after I mean I came I

Joab Ogato: came a couple of times but I was visiting. So the next time I came by myself I was after after after high school in 2008. I'd come

Andrew Kibe: to to win to conquer. So I remember just taking

Joab Ogato: a bus and coming to nation you know getting off at central police

Andrew Kibe: station and walking down to nation center. Chavand Deos, my friend. I don't know if you remember the guy and his presenter. Yes. And that guy intro introduced me to Nairobi. He took me to all the TRS I needed to know and made me who I am. I think I'm in I'm in the media business today because of him. So you got the right guy to to hold your hand. I think so. Yeah. So if if you come from Shags and you get the wrong guy, then you go in the wrong direction. But the right guy will help you get that sh mentality out so that you can enjoy being whatever you are. Because you see like where the slums grew. The slums grew because there was a lot of rural turban migration without a plan. Okay. Yeah. Everybody just come to Nairo. But what would I I mean they were unnecessary evil. I think unnecessary or unnecessary a and yeah like why they were needed? I think because uh you needed these people to run the city. the people in I feel like the people who live in those slums run the city around the economy of Nairobi. I mean if you why are you living in Islam? You're living in a slum because you didn't have a plan. I think then you go back to the competitiveness of those people I talked about who don't want to build proper housing. They left you see the problem with our country is Nairobi we concentrated all our development on Nairobi at the beginning. Yeah. Okay. So now everybody will just run to Nairobi. So they didn't have to have a plan. Just come Nairobi. The plan will fix itself in Nairobi. So I understand that. I get that. But it was our own planlessness that created the slams and now the the places like Bakasi where you see buildings you're like how did you guys build a who who agreed for you guys to build a house like this? Mhm. Yeah. If you look at a place like one of the best planned estates in Africa. Yeah. Back in the day. Yeah. Yes. I mean there was a plan. Yeah. There was a plan. So where did we go wrong? Can we find a picture of old and and carb just a photo next to each other? So now the Mongu had created a very nice plan guys came that plan and now we have Nairobi looking like Islam all of it because it is being swallowed up a guy from I don't know do you think he's doing the same thing to kill but I I've seen the people around him and those are not people they're smart people not you see I'm not saying person okay I mean they are smarter people they they are more would say been exposed for longer so they'll probably build better better roads, better drainage systems. Yeah. Because of the exposure. Mhm. Yeah. Then why isn't that happening? Um I think it's 30 days. Okay. In 30 days. And you think give them time they're going to do something. I mean these people look like just just like me. They speak my language. Even I saw PA is a person. Mhm. is very sharp for him for him to do that because now he has created a hybrid system him from and the person is going going to do wonders you can see he's already growing I'm I'm only thinking here that um I've walked down the road from driven down the road from community to Harris lassi when you go to join the expressway and that road has been there for like 5 years I don't know if you you heard what I'm talking about that's when community railways. Yeah, railways. Have you seen that has been there? How many years? Yeah. I mean, that's why I'm wondering if these people are smart, why do we have stuff like that? These people I saw Sakala walking in the streets of New York a few days ago and he was walking there freely. But they don't have cyos for people to walk down that street to how how how much work do you think there is in right now in terms of think about it? We having about 5 million people every day in

Joab Ogato: in the NU. Yeah. How much work do you think these guys have to do? He must I mean it must be set such a job and a half. Mhm. You get it must be set a

Andrew Kibe: huge responsibility to run because Kenya's economy probably 50% of it is Nairobi. Yeah. But but I mean there's bigger cities than Nairobi which run effectively some of them but remember you you've been given a city that is is how do you say it? It's a manageable. Mhm. But being a manager and being smart, having smart guys around you, you should I'm actually thinking the the Nairobi city is actually too big to be

Joab Ogato: managed by one governor. Okay. Yeah. Think we should split it. Yeah, probably. Okay. I It's too big. So there some

Andrew Kibe: roads that will never get fixed. There's some ideas that will never get implemented cuz it's too much. How many roads, bro? In Kimmania, there are more roads than probably in B. Yeah, true. But I feel like the some of the roads are generally okay, but I mean there's a bunch of roads which are pathetic. Let me ask you, would you want to be nervous govern I I know how it looked like and I know what

Joab Ogato: you wanted to see. Mhm. I I know what the the monga left. Yeah. Yeah. I mean

Andrew Kibe: we were born into it. So you you I I mean I believe that you would be able to do I would I would do a kickass job. I would do a very good job. But it's a very difficult job. It's an extremely difficult job. What would you do differently? What did you do differently than the guy who's there right now to make it work? Can we put up a picture of Saka doing the las work thing? Yeah. But see came in as a politician. Yeah. Yeah. So as a politician, I don't think we expect too much from it's more politics. Someone like who wasn't a politician did more for Nairobi than Zak will ever do. I also hear you know d Nairobi into the to the wolves because he was so corrupt. M again we don't people have to give the evidence about these things. Yeah. So for me I talk about what I see. Yeah. I don't talk about

Joab Ogato: what other people are saying. So we need someone who doesn't sleep. Yeah. Yeah. We need someone who is a guy of a tea totler. Mhm. Someone who's who's going to be up by 4 in the morning. Hey, it's been touted that your president doesn't sleep. He is a tea toddler. 4 in the morning. 4 in the morning, you're awake. Your whole team is awake with you. You guys are working. You're sleeping at maybe 10 or 11 at night. You cannot have a life and be a public official. It's impossible. You have to split those two. Mhm. Yeah. So someone like you cannot drink at just a loose drink. Today I'm going to have a loose drink.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. No. Do you think it's working towards whatever the guy at the top is doing? Oh

Joab Ogato: like Yeah. literally doing a good job being a tal working

Andrew Kibe: waking up early in the morning.

Joab Ogato: He's

Andrew Kibe: working. Okay. He's working. And is it working? He's working. But is it working? I mean, we just did is it AFCON or CH? We did CH. People made billions of millions of shillings from him. Let's put up a picture of the, you know, a post of Chan or something. Yeah. So, Chan, we had a successful CH the other

Joab Ogato: day. Mhm. Haram stars. They were promised something.

Andrew Kibe: Are they given? I hope they were. I mean, it's just for facts and figures, right? There there's no hobbit. Okay. Yeah. The stadium was looking good. I had a problem with the promise that he can they can get houses though because those houses are not his to give. Ah, come on. You guys are so petty. No, I mean it basically means can give you anything he wants in this country. You guys want to hold him down to two houses.

Joab Ogato: Give you a house wherever. He doesn't need to give you the government housing. Me if I'm president shouldn't be questioning me about that stupid [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Okay, I'll give you whatever I want to give you. All of you to help with you guys. I'll give these guys houses you. I'll come and kick you out from your house and give this guy. Okay. Why? So why would you do that? Why would you do that? Because I'm I'm president. Okay.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. I decide what is best for the country. If I decide you're supposed to die, then go say hi to Is it possible that you I mean you are not infallible. You could be you could be I will make mistakes. I'll probably even kill some people who are not supposed to deal. Yeah. Yeah. I mean even God realized that God killed a lot of innocent people. I mean just think about it. That's a nice comeback. He did. He said ah once you see this plague these people are going to die. That plague came back. Children were dying. Children. Yeah. They were dying for their father's mistake. God himself killed children. You know that. Yeah. They were dying for their for their father's parents. Exactly. So I don't know whose mistake you're dying for. It may not be the one you have committed. Somebody in your lineage probably in fact a child. Okay. And then you're there to meet uh to meet the the justice for me. Yeah. Me, I'm just, you

Joab Ogato: know, but God's hand to make sure I send you back to him. So So do you get my point? The

Andrew Kibe: thinking is we should not we should not put a knife on the president's throat or any leader for that matter because there's some leeway that's supposed to be ga to operate. Okay.

Joab Ogato: Yeah. So

Andrew Kibe: when he says I'm going to give this these

Joab Ogato: are our brothers. Yeah. Why are we catching feelings and we didn't even want the houses in the first place? I mean, so now yesterday you don't want the houses. Today you're catching feelings about houses you didn't want being given to people. Why are you jealous? I'm ask I'm talking to you as a Kenya. Yes. I I mean I don't think Kenyans are jealous. No. No. Why they are frustrated? Take your time and think about what I've just said. Why are you jealous? I am frustrated. I'm

Andrew Kibe: speaking on behalf of Kenyans. frustrated because u this was imposed on me and it was told it was going to be it was told that it was going to be a fair comparative process for someone to get a house and these guys are being told by the president you know what you're getting a house you're getting a house everybody's getting a house and yet there's millions of other Kenyans who are probably in line for those why where are those millions have you seen them playing football in

Joab Ogato: the big stadium I mean they why can't we be happy and support the president and tell

Andrew Kibe: the president by the way that's a good idea in fact why not give have houses even for their mothers. Okay, you get what I'm saying? I get why he tell us this only 15 houses. Mhm. Yeah

Joab Ogato: we should he has made thousands of houses. Tell him, hey bro, why not look for these people and their village mates and everybody who is attached to this person and give him a house. Let us look at the ratio of the people who don't have

Andrew Kibe: homes to the ratio of the players are these players don't live in in the bund. They live somewhere. Show me the the ratio. But then the players live somewhere. No. Where the ratio you said? Let's look at the ratio. Where's the rat? Yeah. The ratio of people who don't have homes in Nairobi to the people versus the people who rent home. Like what do you mean when you say homes? Owning a home versus renting a home. Renting a house. Whose business is that your business? Exactly. And the president has promised that he's going to make you own a home. No. The president has not promised you anything. The president is building houses. But was in the promise that the promise is that I shall build the houses. Now whether you want to own a home or not, that is your business. Okay. So the president is his initiative is to build the house. Do you think there are people want to

Joab Ogato: own homes? I mean that's it's a very personal thing. All I'm saying

Andrew Kibe: is out of their haven't gotten an opportunity to not everybody wins. Okay. You trying to make sure everybody win. We're not a socialistic you know society. Not everybody wins. Some people are going to lose. Some people are going to be homeless. Some some people are going to be headless. Not everybody wins. But let me ask you, why don't we take those homes and give them to the homeless people? There's people I know. We haven't asked them to come and register. I know. What we should do is anybody who wins any medal or anybody who's

Joab Ogato: won a medal for the last maybe since 1963, get a home, bro. Zero zero zero fees from that home. I think what you're saying is true though. Yeah. So we tell them, hey, you come here, John, give them a home if they want to transfer that home to their mother or somebody else. But this we should be in a

Andrew Kibe: celebratory mood. Yeah. Not this. But you know, we have homeless. Where's your Where's your homeless list? I don't have the homeless list. But I have a list. Okay. So I have a list of all the people. So you until you can get me your list, let me

Joab Ogato: work on my list. Can we agree upon that? Well, we can at least agree on is this. We can agree on

Andrew Kibe: the fact that there are players, not players, but national heroes who are struggling. I saw recently something on the newspaper of someone who won the Olympics gold medal in I don't know what year. Let's find that pitch and put it up. And I think they were living in poverty. So people what's what's wrong with that? Uh, I think they they should be celebrated because they they No, no, no, no. You're getting it all wrong. Okay. Yeah. Now you're in your feelings. Get off your feelings because we should not be celebrating people because of the decisions they made. But is that is that the same thing? No, we're saying we should not be celebrating them because of the decisions they made in their life. Like now they they they [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] up somewhere and now they are homeless and now let's go and help them out of their homeless. No, I'm not saying let's celebrate to these people who put Kenya on the map. is in whether they in a good place or in a bad place is none of my business. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Saying you guys come on this and this day, we're going

Joab Ogato: to have a hero's day and we're

Andrew Kibe: going to celebrate all our people and every person gets a house. Mhm. We have more more than enough land in this country to give everybody who has put us on the map a house. Okay.

Joab Ogato: This is is a no-brainer. We're building. We'll give you a house there. Okay. I mean, think about it. We have

Andrew Kibe: to turn our mind from always fighting and being antagonistic to celebratory spirit. We are celebrating because we have resources. We do. We're building talent stud. You've seen it. I've seen

Joab Ogato: day and night. I've seen it. I've seen the crane. Day and night, my guy. In fact

Andrew Kibe: they're building an an exchange over there because of Talanta. Yeah. The one they've been on junction. Yeah. At the junction there. A big exchange. So there will be no traffic there. Just be going around into Talanta. 2 three years this country will look amazing. Some place look amazing. I mean this country will look amazing. People come from Uganda you know in Uganda they told if you want

Joab Ogato: to go to before you go see America go to go to they told Yeah.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. So even you when you came from Oh my god. But now you America I mean probably I'm more exposed and I I would When I came back from ST, I used the expressway.

Joab Ogato: I remember when they they built in expressway. It was such an

Andrew Kibe: inconvenience to us cuz my studio was someone. Yeah. And I bitched about it a couple of times this and I came back and I was in on the express this is my Nairobi. Yeah. It felt so good. Yeah. Can we find a clip of Nairobi and put it up when good? I was like, man, I'm finally back home. I like this. I enjoy it. Now, what else? What else did I [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] about that was not real? I mean, that's what I thought. Yeah. And I started opening my eyes now to possibilities. When you come to a country like ours is full of nothing but possibilities. I think so. So, that's why the, you know, folks from the diaspora come, you know, like from other countries, the west come over here and they establish they're bringing some UN money here. You know that? Yeah. Yeah. I a lot of U money. So yeah. Yeah. So guys to make money for us too. Exactly. But the opportunity exists if you reach

Joab Ogato: out for it. Mhm. Yeah. So the guys

Andrew Kibe: are going to beat here. So you give a lot of credit to the president and um I was thinking earlier about this thing they call noise versus

Joab Ogato: the signal ratio being that signal is the things that make sense and noise is the things that don't make sense. So the noise in your life and then signal is you know those things that make sense. And I think they were saying that Elon I read somewhere that Elon Musk is said to have a very high signal and very very little noise and so is um Steve Jobs. He says Steve Jobs had very a very high um threshold for signal and very little time for noise. Um so I'm wondering do you think your president has a very high signal uh you know thresh for signal lower for extremely okay probably on

Andrew Kibe: the same level with the other guys. Okay. You can see those people around us. Mhm. Yeah.

Joab Ogato: These people are highly driven. These guys perform at a level that nobody else can perform. Mhm. Yeah. So you you're able to switch off what do you call it? Switch off the noise. Yeah. And stay in the zone. Mhm. If you could stay like now that's why people take drugs especially when they're doing like exams. Yeah. Because you want a high signal.

Andrew Kibe: You want a high signal, low noise, and you want to switch off all that noise. No. your mother, your teacher, all those comments you had on Facebook, ex whatever, you know, your girlfriend, the one who left you, and all that noise remains in your head until But now these guys are able to focus. Mhm. And switch and pretend like that never happened. Yeah. Yeah. So even for me sometimes when I see my mind wandering, you can you can tell when your mind is wandering. Yeah. You can

Joab Ogato: feel your mind moving away from whatever it is you're supposed to be focusing on. Mhm. So you can catch your mind until you come back here, focus on this.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. Yeah. So winners do that. So even in pool, you can tell a guy who has a lot of noise versus a guy who's on signal. Yeah. So I think that's So let me ask you, how do you think we can turn off all the noise in our lives so that we can we can have more signal? Um by forgiving the people who

Joab Ogato: hurt you. Okay. Yeah. But being honest about first identifying the people who hurt

Andrew Kibe: you starting with your mom I feel like well we're going to come to that but

Joab Ogato: I don't Isn't it say that mothers are the most caring most nurturing

Andrew Kibe: and they would care for their children to their grave. No those are just stories. Okay. Yeah. Most of most of the the damage that is done to us

Joab Ogato: as human beings is done by our mothers. Okay. Okay. And that is done because there's no protection from the father. Mhm. So when the father is in the picture, he's supposed to protect the the

Andrew Kibe: children against what the mom would do to the kids. Okay. Yeah. So you find so you find kids who are raised by their mom alone without the presence of the father or at least the influence of the father. They tend to hate both parents. Yeah. So you start first with your mother because your mother is one who is in direct contact with you. Yeah. But once you forgive her, then you realize you've been carrying around all this [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] for all these years, yet your biggest bully was your mother. And once you've dealt with your bully, who else matters in this world? Okay. I mean, just think about it. Like when you go to prison. Yeah. Have you watched those movies? Like prison break. Like when you go to prison and then you look for the biggest bully. Yeah. And if you deal with him, you'll never have to deal with anybody else ever. You become the biggest bully. You take Exactly. Yeah. And who better to be a big biggest bully than you? Okay. Because you're in control. You were a bully. Impulse control. Yes. Have you ever been a bully? I've also been a bully. Okay. Do you think that affected you in any way? Of course. Did you forgive your bullies? No. I can't remember my bullies. Okay. So, it was just a phase of life. Okay. But I I learned how now to be sneaky to avoid because when I was young when I was younger, I was a very scrawny. I was

Joab Ogato: a puny little thing. Mhm. Yeah. So, I had Find a picture of Do we have that in the internet somewhere? So, I don't know. I think I only have one photo when I was small, but I was like a small Try trolling the internet and find a photo of K when he was small. I was a nice cute little thing. Yeah. And then um class I think seven or eight was when I Oh, okay. So, and I got tall and now the bullying wasn't really an issue. Mhm. Yeah. Were you always tall then after class 7? Yeah, after class 7 hours now I just started shooting up. I think by the time I was done from four I was already 6'2, 63. Yeah. You're probably the tallest in your school. No, no, no. Oh, there was taller people. There was a guy called Gala. That

Andrew Kibe: guy was like 67 there. Hey, he was big. So whenever we He's like a Russian. Yeah. He was called Ronald Gala. Mhm. After after Ronald and he was huge. Yeah. Yeah. He was taller than me, that guy. Yeah. But

Joab Ogato: yeah, there was no much bullying after that. Mhm. You know, um it's

Andrew Kibe: very interesting that KB is a writer. You know, he's written a book called The 28 Commandments. I've read your book, man. It's It's interesting. Interesting. It's very interesting. When I was looking for the book though, you is it? Um Okay. Go ahead. Yeah. So, when I was looking for the book, I I I I look for it on the internet. Like I I Googled the book. And then there was another there's another Andrew K who's a writer. He's white, though. Yes. Imagine that. Let's put up a picture of this guy. They say Andrew Kbo or something. Maybe they don't say K. That's a guy who took Andrew Kbe.com. Andrew K everything. So by the time I was getting to know this thing, I was like there's another Andrew K. Okay. Yeah. So Andrew Kbe is a white guy and then now me. But now luckily I I surpassed him. Yeah. I I think I think you did and so uh you know I eventually I reached out to you. I was like where can I buy your book? And then you you know you told

Joab Ogato: me where I could buy the book. And so I went I went through the book and it's uh it's very interesting. It's I feel like it's a story um an an image of your life, you know, a snippet

Andrew Kibe: of your life and

Joab Ogato: the decisions and mistakes that you made. And I feel like what you're trying to bring out there is how someone could become like you or learn from your mistakes. Is that what you're trying to bring out? Would you say um this the 28 commandments? Mhm. The story behind it is Let's put up a picture of the 28th commandment during um the co Yeah. went completely broke. Mhm. Then I asked myself, bro, that time I'm just shuttling back and forth from my studio to my uh to my kids' house. Something I never thought I would ever do, you know? I never thought I would go back there. So I was I was living a I would say a miserable life. Yeah. All this time I'm still doing studio back and forth. But I'm not I'm not enjoying it. So I asked myself, which was your best year? He said I was when I was 28. Mhm. Now I'm 49. So at the time I think I

Andrew Kibe: was 46. I was 45. Yeah. So say which which is the which was your best year when I was 28? Why was that your best year? At the time I didn't have toys. I my

Joab Ogato: business was doing well. Yeah.

Andrew Kibe: I had everything I wanted. Was that your writing business? Your publishing business? Oh, at the time we're doing a movie business. So, publishing came after I I got saved. Yeah. So, this was so I had everything I wanted. I had no bills. I didn't know what auctioneers were. You know, my life was just smooth. And after that, I got into some trouble and I got into church and everything. So, I was asking myself, what would I advise my 28-year-old self? The mistakes I've made from the time I'm 28 to 45. Mhm. if can write down those mistakes. So, bro, I wrote them down in 2020 and they came to 28 mistakes mistakes.

Joab Ogato: Then a okay, I paused on

Andrew Kibe: that. I wanted to give um my videos on the 28 mistakes. But eventually, I think

Joab Ogato: is it the beginning of this year or last year? Mhm. Last year, right?

Andrew Kibe: Last year, I was like just to hell with it. I

Joab Ogato: sat in the house for a month. I didn't leave the

Andrew Kibe: book. I said I must get this book out. I want it in its roest form. Like I'm talking to myself. Mhm. I'm talking to my 28-y old self. So, I don't know who out there is going to read it, what they're going to get from it, but I'm talking to myself. I remember when you were almost done with it. It was almost was coming out. I think that's when you

Joab Ogato: came you you came on on Mafria's Eonini for the second time, I think, and that's why you talked about it. And I remember I bought I bought it together with Mufa and I think we were I thought we were going to get a copy, but those copies were never delivered. What happened? I never printed them. Oh, okay. Yeah. I just never printed them.

Andrew Kibe: You decided to have them as I just said, "Yeah, ebooks." I mean, why did

Joab Ogato: you decide not to print them? I didn't see the value. Okay. I didn't see the value. I was like, "Fuck it." I mean, you Who's going to carry a book around? You guys are reading everything on the phone. Yeah. Yeah. Or the Yeah. So, I decided the day that I start doing the tours is when I'm going to print them. Mhm. Yeah. But I'm not going to have just a thousand books sitting somewhere. M the day that I start

Andrew Kibe: to do the tours when I'm meeting the people on the ground I'll print and give everybody their copy. Yeah. But until then so many

Joab Ogato: you say it's a mirror of the modern man. It's a mirror of the modern man. Yeah. Exactly. Which commandment stuck out? Which command stuck

Andrew Kibe: out? I mean uh there was a bunch. The second one I'd say I forget what it says though, but the second one um the first one is f everything. Mhm.

Joab Ogato: I forgot what the second one says. I didn't crumb the commandments because I got it like two days ago and I went through the book in two days. Oh, that was fast. Yeah. All right. You like to research your guests. I I like to not really research the

Andrew Kibe: guests. I just like to research what we were talking about. I don't want to, you know, show up and then we have nothing. When I was starting the podcast, I remember it was it was strange because sometimes I I remember that this time I showed up in a pod and I didn't have anything to talk about. So I was like we talked I talked about everything I knew and it turned out my co- guest my it was kind of like a co-host then she didn't know what to talk

Joab Ogato: about she had nothing to

Andrew Kibe: talk about so I ran out of things to say so why did you

Joab Ogato: guys just talk about life like so who are you [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] she was she was quiet she couldn't I mean do people share who they are [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] on podcasts okay I mean you wouldn't share I would I share I I think I wouldn't what what have you shared what happened you shared about yourself. What haven't I shared? Oh man, I think my life is still in a shell. Nobody knows knows me. And mostly because I don't want my students to know me. I think the moment I

Andrew Kibe: stop being a professor, maybe I will share my You're a professor of what? Regenerative medicine. Yes. Okay. Yeah. It's a field of engineering where we engineer human tissue for transplant. Is uh child trafficking a real thing? Is child trafficking a real thing? Or organ uh organ trafficking? Yeah, I think it is. I mean, I hear there's a hospital somewhere here where people were being paid to get organs out. I hear there's cities in Mexico where people go and, you

Joab Ogato: know, they would steal organs from your body. So, I think organ trafficking

Andrew Kibe: is a real thing, but maybe regenerative medicine will take care of that hopefully.

Joab Ogato: So, you guys will be able to grow limbs and [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] No, we are still at a very infant stages. So right now what we can do is hard bones, soft bones or cartilage uh skin and we're trying to do bone marrow. We could also do cona of the Is it is it true that Japan have found a way to regrow teeth? Uh I was just propaganda. I am not sure. It could be possible. I mean because of you know what what is in teeth. I'm just not sure if they would have it would have the same integrity as the you know as a as a human teeth because of the different layers that are there. But I think

Andrew Kibe: it is something that is possible. Uh actually regenerative medicine was made possible by a Japanese guy called Shina Manaka. He he found these things. He was trying to find a medication for his dad who who died um uh for of um his dad was sick of uh what is it called? Um uh hepatitis hepatitis either B or C or something like that or maybe A. And so he found a medication for that. While trying to find the medication for for that disease, he also discovered what they call the yam yamanaka factor. So there's five growth factors which when you introduce to any cell in your body, they'll make that cell a stem cell.

Joab Ogato: We call them um induced plur potent stem cells and those can be used then to engineer any organ in in the body. It sounds almost interesting. Yeah, almost interesting. I mean for you

Andrew Kibe: it must be mindblowing, right? So you guys working with the lizards and [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] No, we uh we are still working on dishes. Uh there are other groups in my lab. We still work on a dish. There are labs that are proceeded to work on animal trials. There

Joab Ogato: are you know human trials in place

Andrew Kibe: as well. But there are products out there. So skin and uh skin and bone those ones are already work you know being used

Joab Ogato: in in industry. What about like uh robot hands and things like those? Are we close to that? Those ones are there, but

Andrew Kibe: they're very experimental and very expensive. So, those ones do exist. They call them, I think, bionic arms or bionic limbs. Uh, so eventually we all going to be like robots, right? Um, eventually I think we're getting there. Maybe. How many years do you give us now that we have AI? Now that we have AI and Neuralink and the possibility of having something neural link which connects your mind to the internet. Optimus Prime. And are we I don't think we're going to get to the point of Optimus Prime. I once took a tour in an Amazon warehouse. They tell you to keep your phones by the way. You're not allowed to to record in Exactly. Yeah. Because it's those guys are in the future. Yeah, they are. Yeah. So, at some point our cities are going to be driving will be a lot safer because

Joab Ogato: the machines will be doing the driving. Uh well, infrastructure wise, I think we are not set up for that kind of future. What What do you mean we uh in China? They're already doing

Andrew Kibe: it. Yeah. In China because they set up the infrastructure for that. Oh, the machines they they follow the whatever infrastructure you have. Do you think that that would work in our roads? I mean, narrow roads very very easily. Gua because all you do is just put a you know a whole perimeter and just keep growing the perimeter. Okay. So, we would have to recreate the infrastructure because I'm thinking of a city like Boston. So Boston is one of the oldest cities in America and I feel like it's not it wasn't properly planned the way other cities are properly planned, you know, like with streets that no go north south or

Joab Ogato: east west. So they're like a

Andrew Kibe: square grid. Bosa streets that go diagonally, you know, stuff like that. The the the rate this AI is learning, you know, they they train they just don't dump these cars on the streets. They train them first on the streets. Yeah. Yeah. So the car will go with somebody who's mapping out the road the way they do with Google. Mhm. They map out all the roads in those cities before they allow those cars

Joab Ogato: to do that self-driving. Yeah. How much I feel like you

Andrew Kibe: put some pride in your S550 s. So, let's imagine that was not there. You couldn't drive it. All you you could do was

Joab Ogato: to get into a box, you know, that looks

Andrew Kibe: like a Tesla Cyber

Joab Ogato: Truck. Daspin on wheels is what I call it. He's on M probably doesn't watch this

Andrew Kibe: so he doesn't care. It doesn't matter. So, how do you think that will take something

Joab Ogato: away from you? I mean, we all compromise. Yeah. Yeah. You you have one, you take something else. So, that's why I'm thinking then that that life, think about it. There's a time when

Andrew Kibe: the speed limits didn't matter. Yeah. And people

Joab Ogato: were dying all over. People were dying, but people

Andrew Kibe: were having the best time of their life. And then we introduced But even those

Joab Ogato: cars would that were there before speed limits didn't go fast, you know, as you know, as fast as the cars. We've always had a need

Andrew Kibe: for speed as as men. Yeah. So we've always been since we invented the motorcycles, the cars, the planes, we always wanted to go faster. Mhm. I mean, so the fastest if 50 was fastest in 1950, it was very fast. Yeah. You see what I mean? You cannot compare their their speed and today's speed because of

Joab Ogato: the advances in technology. Yeah. Yeah. So we've always had that

Andrew Kibe: need for speed and we compromise something when we the faster we want to go and the more convenient we want to go, the

Joab Ogato: more compromises you're going to make, you know. And now so now very soon driving

Andrew Kibe: will only be reserved for some countries. Yeah. Where the rich can go and drive those old vintage cars in Malta or like in Cuba. Let's put up

Joab Ogato: a picture of Cuban cars, you

Andrew Kibe: know, they are very I think they are still stuck in old. So like a place like maybe Monaco, they would resist that nonsense. And in Monaco, we don't want electric cars that drive themselves, you know. Do you think we would resist

Joab Ogato: that Kenyans? I know. I feel like Kenyans resist everything. No

Andrew Kibe: Kenyans will embrace everything, bro. Okay. Oh yeah. So it's the other way. It's the other way around. We want to

Joab Ogato: be seen. Me I want to be seen with the first robot. Yeah. Walking walking walking with my robot picking stories. Yeah. O Yogi not picking up my calls, you know. Yeah. We everything. Let me ask you. If you're walking down the street today and you saw a robot walking up the street towards you, how would you behave? Freaked out. You know, there's a day I drove uh I flew a drone in my village and um I probably have that video somewhere, man. And the people were running helter scatter. So, I was flying over I was a kid. I was I was younger. So, the people were flying were running helter skelter in their in their homesteads. I remember even bring the drone down as close as their roofs, man. It was crazy. It was creeping and [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] because, bro, what

Andrew Kibe: are you doing? We've never seen anything like this. And I remember

Joab Ogato: flying it close to the river. There was this lady walking down towards the river. I think she was going home. She had firewood on her head. She dropped that firewood man and drained like So, so you tell me.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. You've come from the future. You've gone to

Joab Ogato: a village in the same time period you're in. Yeah. So, right now there's somebody who has a future that us guys can't see. True. Because if he introduces it to us, we'll lose our minds like your village mates. Yeah. True. Yeah. So, there's

Andrew Kibe: something around here somewhere. Maybe even there's somebody in the room. They can't reveal themselves to us. Yeah. Because they are too way too in the future Mhm. for liking. Yeah. Yeah. You know, um for understanding at least I think that in there

Joab Ogato: are some mad scientists in China who are doing some crazy things

Andrew Kibe: you know, like making babies who are strange like creating I call them designer babies like babies who are

Joab Ogato: you know, in some type of way with blue eyes, you know

Andrew Kibe: this type of hair, this kind of muscle build and stuff

Joab Ogato: like that. And I fear that though because then that's what I'm saying takes away the the spice of life. the spice of life. The fact that you can sit here and know that there's some sort of struggle that pushes you. I feel like it pushes you a little bit. It gives you some spice and happiness to know that you're working towards something, some satisfaction, bro. I get satisfied just watching things on the internet. Okay. But then if you're just sitting down, you see you cannot decide what spice of life is. Spice of life keeps changing. There's a time spice of life was waking up going outside and getting the newspaper and sitting on the couch and this guy would say hey I can't wait for my spice of life in the morning and his wife would bring him a cup of tea today if you do that people look at you like hey bro what are you doing the newspaper you get so things have changed now spice of life is different tomorrow spice of life will be different kids are kids are not being born into your your old ways your toy is not going to know north mirango they will not know how to speak ki I would I wish that they did though. Yeah. But it's because of the the nostalgia that you have of the good times and

Andrew Kibe: some of the struggles that

Joab Ogato: built you to the person you are today. But if you take that out and imagine that

Andrew Kibe: this is an individual then why would I impose my past on them? Because I feel like they need we need

Joab Ogato: some sort of traition to to um identity. What tradition are you holding on to?

Andrew Kibe: Um

Joab Ogato: personally I I try to hold to my kissy roots. Which one? Which are very confused though because they have been uh in in they've been encroached with western ideologies. Which one? Give me

Andrew Kibe: an an ideology that you're holding on to. So one of

Joab Ogato: the ideology that ideology that I hold on to is respect for others.

Andrew Kibe: That's it's not ky that's just ka. Yeah. But I mean in the west they you there still I was in Texas there's respect for others. Yeah. Because so it's not a very thing. What what is what is happening in

Joab Ogato: that you can now teach your kids? That's what I'm saying. That that got lost I think with my grandfather's generation when the white man came in.

Andrew Kibe: I mean I have respect for my elders. I have respect even for kids. No, that's what I'm saying. The things that remained are the same things that would probably be in the west which some of the So it's not a very So you're not teaching them anything any roots. There's nothing for you to teach as a I think there is something I just I probably need to find it. So you're not teaching it actively. I I I would agree. So you're not leaving. So one thing. So the first thing is the language though. That's important. So I teach I'm teaching her kissy. So my wife doesn't speak kissy. So we speak she can speak swahili. My wife and I speak in English. But we made sure to my daughter we speak to her in Swahili only. So she can only speak. So you're not teaching

Joab Ogato: your daughter kissy? I I am teaching a kissy but I'm by myself there. Are you teaching your daughter kissy? Yes I am. No you're not. Your daughter can speak Swahili. I was talking to her. Yeah, she can't speak Kissy. She can speak Kiss, but she can understand

Andrew Kibe: some words. So, there's nothing that you're going to teach

Joab Ogato: her that you can say this is what I taught her from what I got from Kissy. She'll know a few words. You know what?

Andrew Kibe: Now that you're challenging me, I think I'm going to make it a point that she can speak Kiss by the time she's five. But is it necessary? I think it's necessary because we Are you going to raise

Joab Ogato: her in Kenya? Uh I I would want her to be free to go any Kenya. Um hopefully hopefully yes. Are you Are you raising her in Kenya? No. Currently not I'm not raising

Andrew Kibe: in Kenya currently. So so let's talk about what is currently happening. Mhm. Kissi is an idea that is attacking your head. Yes. Because it is your heritage. It's not her heritage. Mhm. I get me get the difference. I'm getting the point. So kissy is an idea in your head. So

Joab Ogato: you are living in your imagination and you want to now direct your imagination to

Andrew Kibe: your kids. But they will never need kissy. They will never need to speak it. They will never need to understand it.

Joab Ogato: The only thing they need is the name that is. Yeah. And when they go back to home to visit people some every now and

Andrew Kibe: then and they have that name, they will ah

Joab Ogato: this is anato. So this is one

Andrew Kibe: of us even though she doesn't speak it because they expect her not to. Yeah. But let me ask you, don't you think we need culture? You know it's unnecessary. What we need is just collective morals. Okay. We've agreed on things because which culture we going with? Are we going with culture? lower culture. I mean you can keep your Kikuyu culture. I went to Ki and I met Kikuyu in Ki. I was like I thought what culture they can keep

Joab Ogato: their culture in Ki wherever they can create a small microcosm in their in their home. That's why

Andrew Kibe: I'm saying we are we have lost our cultures which go with our identity and I think but what culture you grew up with? I grew up with a kissy culture. It was an amalgamation of Kissy and Christianity. And the and the moment the moment you got a chance you ran

Joab Ogato: away from that [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] culture. Well, I think you stopped in Minnesota. You ran like a thief because that culture has run away from my culture. Your culture is monetized. Well, I mean, you can monetize other things. I don't speak in Ki in in America. Well, I speak it to my Yeah, but it's not a business language. Yeah. True. Yeah. So, you've not monetized Kiss. The only thing that Kiss helped you is by raising you and giving you a foundation. But beyond that, KC is not a culture. You just is just a location. It has remained a location. It's not a culture anymore. Okay. Why do you think it's become a location? It is because people decided that we will wipe away by the kissy culture and you know bring some other culture. So now now there's some other culture which has you know it's called a superior culture. The superior culture takes over the inferior culture. And what sometimes I feel I feel like in the next 50 years there will be a handful of kissy speakers who will

Andrew Kibe: be left globally. I mean if if any and is it wrong then for me to take it upon myself to want to be the preserver of the kissy language. I mean as long as you monetize it. Okay. Yeah. But if it's not monetized it's unnecessary. I mean I because who are you doing it with? Wife. Your

Joab Ogato: wife is not a ki. I mean who talking of culture like you really love kiss but you didn't

Andrew Kibe: marry a kiss. Well I no my wife is actually kissy. She just doesn't speak she understands. Oh so you see even worse. Yeah because if you really wanted you would have gotten someone who speaks that language so they can teach that language who well to your child. I I wasn't thinking about that at

Joab Ogato: the time. So this is just new new thinking. No, no. You when you become a parent, that's when you decide some of these things. You before you became a parent, are you thinking about things you're going to do when you never even after? Even today, I'm

Andrew Kibe: not thinking about it. Then thinking about what? I don't think about things to

Joab Ogato: do with children and culture and what they will get. That's not the mind of a man. What's in the mind of a man? I mean, just to better yourself every day. Mhm. Yeah. Because I know if I'm good, everybody around me is good. But then doesn't that mean that you're going to need to explain? These

Andrew Kibe: are individuals. They they will learn more from me by example, not

Joab Ogato: by what I'll teach them. True. A few minutes ago, you told me that um kids who are raised by both parents or the father is in I said I used the word influence. The influence of the father is in the

Andrew Kibe: child's life. Okay. Yeah. The influence of the father is in the child's life. That influence doesn't include uh parenting. What mean? I thought in

Joab Ogato: that's parenting. That's what you No, what I mean is that influence doesn't include um being actively involved in the kid's

Andrew Kibe: life. No, that's work that's work of

Joab Ogato: the mother, bro. Okay. Yeah. So, the mother is one who's supposed to know what's what's going on with the kid. You as a father, you're like a godhead. Your work is to be up there and sort problems, but on a very general level, not g homework, g what I'm doing. But then, doesn't this mean 2 minutes ago going to pick up a kid from school like you're a driver? A few minutes ago, what the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] is wrong with you? A few minutes ago, you told me this that the mothers

Andrew Kibe: raise the

Joab Ogato: kids and the kids have a problem. The society has a problem because it was raised by mothers. But you're not listening. Listen to what I'm saying. Yeah. The work of raising the kids belongs to the mother. Yes. Okay. If the father is in the picture, his influence is in that that

Andrew Kibe: setup. Yes. Then the kids are going to grow well. If the father is just just

Joab Ogato: shows up, no influence could be anything. Okay. Yeah. You decide whatever influence is. Sometimes you're going to travel and go for 3 years. Mhm. Are you there with a kid to raise a kid? No, you're not. Yeah. But your kid is still growing. So, how how is your how are you influencing them? So, the thing is this um um through through finances. Okay. Yeah. Through just some very basic communication, through the woman being able to follow your lead because that's the most important thing for the woman to acknowledge that you exist. Mhm.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. Do you think women don't some women don't acknowledge? Many women turn their kids against their fathers. Why is that? Because they hate the whole setup. Do you think the setup was was not a was not an organic setup? Is it possible that some men actively impose negativity on their wives and maybe that's why the wives eventually turn against them? Oh, now we're going too far. We're talking we're talking too many things. Bring me closer. Yeah, we're talking too many things. Mhm. You see, in in 2025, if I see a married guy Yeah. I know there's something wrong with that guy. Mhm. Yeah. He has not processed information enough. Mhm. Because uh the the the society right now does not support marriage. There was a time it did but now he doesn't. Yeah. Yeah. Because the

Joab Ogato: women have to go out and work. So as a poor man, what are you doing trying to get married? Married and children. How how does that look like? It's not working. It's not There's no place where it's working. Unless it's a country where it's set up to protect the institution. Mhm. You see the communities at the time used to protect the institution. They protected it. The man and the woman were both protected. So the woman doesn't [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] this guy up and the man doesn't [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] her up. Yeah. And the

Andrew Kibe: kids grow up among other kids. Yeah. So that's why they were um like this be called recall age groups. Yes. So in the age groups there are time the whole age group has to get married.

Joab Ogato: Yeah. So you're not being left. Where's your age group? Who are the people who are going to keep you accountable? Mhm. You left kiss where you are circumcised. So where's your age group? You're exposed. Mhm. You're by yourself now. Your wife decides to [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] you, you're done. There's nothing you can do. It doesn't matter how many muscles you have

Andrew Kibe: how many PhDs, how many degrees, how much money you have. The society does

Joab Ogato: not protect you anymore. In fact, in societies like America, it is actually out to fix the man. If the man attack, shoot ah the wife says, "Oh, this guy is abusing me with his fats." But but if the society is there set up in a way that it protects both people, then the children grow wonderfully because even you as a man, you cannot be an abusive man. Mhm. Her as the woman, she cannot be an abusive woman because everybody's

Andrew Kibe: watching our [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Yeah. But now when when there's no one watching, just imagine the damage you guys do to the I feel like we are agreeing on something here. the the uh the

Joab Ogato: traditional African setting provided for what you're talking about for the recas and for accountability for all those the it's not just African the the marriage setting around the world protected the both parties yes because they wanted to keep growing the village those numbers were important yeah and that is why your dad wanted you now immediately it is important but you're not there Mhm. So we're not in that anymore. So forget about that. That doesn't exist. Your dad would would as soon as he got enough sons and he would once it was time for you to get married, he had prepared himself. He had the cows. He had the dowy and they had even picked out a a girl for you. Yeah. It was not you doing it. It was not your dick doing it. Because most of the time you guys are doing it just to have

Andrew Kibe: somebody to have sex with. Yeah. But your dad would look

Joab Ogato: beyond that. Yeah. So your dad would look beyond that.

Andrew Kibe: Him and his friends would come together. They agree on the girl. They know the girl where she comes from

Joab Ogato: her manners, her mannerisms, her family, her background, you know, have they raised kids before? It's okay. Yeah. Have they raised kids before? How how do those girls look like? You know, so there was a lot that went into it because this person was coming to add to our family cuz we need people to work. Yeah. Let me ask you. Yeah. But now you we're living in flats. What are we doing getting married? What are you adding to I don't know your problem. Since you know all this then uh I I don't know if you have a son but do you think you'd choose a wife or your son if you had one? Um if you told me Mhm. Yeah I would. Okay. Yeah. And you see I would also need to have to be in a place where I have the resources to send him out to do that. Yeah. Yeah. So if I have the resources to send him out to do that and uh I I can create that culture for him, I I will. Mhm. Yeah. He's just uh turning turned 16. So I will I'd be like okay okay my son so you want me to do this for you so thank you. Yeah I mean it would be a proud moment for me to do something like that for him if you asked me but I have not I don't know how to do it. I would have to study how to do it. And do you think that would um collectively men decided to do that what you just said collectively many people decided you know what let us come together let us try to bring our traditions back. And one of the things we're probably going to do is to advise our children the p the people to settle down with. Do you think that will make society better? Of course, because would then that make marriage in 2025 a useful institution? Yes, because

Andrew Kibe: now we've agreed on something. Okay. It's not just people just [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] and having random toys who you cannot take care of.

Joab Ogato: Yeah. It is we have agreed. Okay. So we our toys the one who's this and this will get married to this age group. I mean whatever we agree upon as long as we are conscious

Andrew Kibe: about it. Mhm. Right now my only problem is we are doing things like we're in a in a in a in a days. Yeah. Yeah. So nobody knows what they're doing. They're just doing because they have been social engineered to do it. Yeah.

Joab Ogato: So when I see people getting married in 2025, I say how ina my father

Andrew Kibe: they're getting married because others before them got married.

Joab Ogato: They don't even know why they're getting married. Many of them men think they're getting married so they can have a constant supply of sex. Yeah. Women are getting married so somebody can pay their rent. So these two people are getting married for the the wrong reasons. Imagine they introduced a child in that mix. When you

Andrew Kibe: got married, did you have a reason why you're getting

Joab Ogato: married? Yeah. I I wanted to have sex. Okay. Yeah. That was And then I was in church. So for me, it was a license to have sex. That's what people in church do. They get married so they can have sex. Okay. So that God can rubber stamp your DMs when you're having sex. Okay.

Andrew Kibe: That's why people get married. But take away the need for sex for a man. There's no marriage. Yeah. If you take you're getting married without sex. So what is the reason for

Joab Ogato: marriage then? Uh delusion. Okay. People are deluded and that's why they get married. Yeah. People are in their imagination. Mhm. So they get married. So let's paint a better picture then. So if

Andrew Kibe: if we were in a

Joab Ogato: picture where marriage was necessary, what would that necessity for marriage

Andrew Kibe: be? What would be the reason for marriage? Population growth. Okay. Yeah. But

Joab Ogato: isn't that another way of saying to have

Andrew Kibe: sex? Yeah. But it's conscious. Okay. Yeah. Population growth. Mhm. So what is population growth? You

Joab Ogato: want to have babies. Yeah. You look at yourself and say, "Okay, I am how tall are you?" You're six. 6t. Mhm. 6t you want to have, you're not going to go pick up bilikimo. Mhm. Produce bilikimo children when you're 6 foot. Yeah. Yeah. So you're 6 foot. It's conscious. You want the best possible product coming out of your nuts. Yeah. You want the best possible person raising your kids. So it's conscious. It's not you that you fell in love. You saw some big dab somewhere and now you've lost your mind. No, this is conscious. The same way you do business, the same when you're going to buy your podcast equipment, you're buying Nikon because you know Nikon and lighting is good. Canon has better this and that. So this is conscious. Mhm. I'm only on Nikon because I'm cheap. You see, I mean, but there was a reason why you bought the Nikon. Yeah. You couldn't afford Canon at the time. Yeah. When I bought it, but

Andrew Kibe: it was conscious. Like now there's a a place we went to one once of called Cabernet Gardens. Mhm. Now Cabernet used to own a home I Yeah. So Cabernet one of those Cabernet Gardens a whole house. Mhm. You go there. Okay. Yeah. You go there and they bring you Yeah. woman after woman. Do you want this one? Say next. Do you want this one? Consciously you pick your whole have a good time bounce. Yeah. Yeah. What is this marriage, bro? That's a good question. Yeah. What is this marriage? If I if I were to go back, can't you find then your [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] in your wife? Impossible. Why not? Because you guys are spending too much time together. Okay. And then once she starts getting babies, how can

Joab Ogato: she go back to

Andrew Kibe: being a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Mhm. Now she's been elevated to mother. Mhm. Now you have to look for a Okay. Ah, I understand. You're getting Yeah. You get that's what that's how it was supposed

Joab Ogato: to be. You jump from wife, mother of my kids, you get another [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] she becomes mother of your kids, get another hole. You know that is the life of a man. But I think all the generations used to have this their wives. I mean, and sustain them for eternity. Like which ones? I don't know. I'd say the kissy culture. Your grandfather had how many wives? My grandfather had one wife. My great-grandfather had two wives. Okay. The man before he had I I don't know how many wives. Maybe but but having wives was for the rich. It wasn't for the poor people. Yeah. Yeah. So the game

Andrew Kibe: is still the same. Having wives was for the rich. So make money first. Become rich first and then you can think about marriage because your dad your dad is poor. Yeah. So how why should marriage be on the top of your list? Yes. Your dad is poor. So the best you can do is for your kids. Yeah. Or you know that's the best you can do. Mhm. But your dad is poor. That's why you have to do all this hustle because you've started a whole new direction. You're not going your dad's direction. Your dad is poor. You want to become wealthy because your dad is poor. If you create wealth, then you could get married. If you could, but remember, you're not coming

Joab Ogato: from a background that supports that marriage. Mhm. So, you're also putting yourself under very serious uh you're trapping yourself because you don't know what a good marriage looks like. But you need to

Andrew Kibe: get wisdom first. if there's no wisdom from your father. So Ka, let's

Joab Ogato: paint a picture. It's the year 2050 and everybody has listened to KB's

Andrew Kibe: advice and they've decided not to get married. Okay. So because uh people still want to have sex with either whether it's casual, whether it's real or whatever, we have hundreds of thousands of millions

Joab Ogato: of babies who have come from I'd say, you know, who have mothers who have been raised by mothers or fathers, you know, single fathers or single mothers. How how does that society look like then? Uh America. Okay. Is have you gone to black America? The black community? Yes. I have a bunch of that. That's exactly what you don't have to go to 2050. It's happening today. Yeah. Yeah. That's what's happening. Chaos. Mhm. It's full chaos where the women are in charge of the kids. Full chaos. Full is war and fight and everything. Who created this chaos? Is it the woman or is it the man? is the weakness in the society. Is that weakness propagated by the woman or by the man? You know, sometimes I want to say woman, but it's not it's not 100% woman. Mhm. I I I I don't know. I I I I don't know where that weakness came from. I want to

Andrew Kibe: say the devil, but I I don't know what that looks like as well. Mhm. Because how how do you explain men voluntarily giving up their power to the women? Who who created us like that? How did men give up their power to women? If if you even think about the first man the Bible talks about, Adam, he gave his power to the woman. Mhm. Immediately

Joab Ogato: the first guy the Bible talks about gave his will to the woman. Mhm. You think you stand a chance? Why do you think Adam gave his will to the woman? I mean, the woman was I think I think God is a narcissist. He enjoys the suffering of the man through the woman. Okay. The first guy and the first Chile and she him. Mhm. We didn't even wait till chapter two. Chapter one, you this guy's already been awarded. Yeah. And they didn't even tell you how long Adam had been living by himself. Mhm. I think Adam was maybe had done like four 5 thousand years probably naming and [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] everything inside that were like hey there's not been a somebody told God yeah this guy is lonely this guy is lonely God was

Andrew Kibe: like oh he's lonely okay and God had not come up with that idea by himself so God's wife told him Adam is lonely hey this is new God had a wife I mean who else they were together with somebody is in the Bible okay so his wife told him Adam is lonely

Joab Ogato: you know that nonsense in imagination Ah, he's lonely. Okay, let's create for him something. So they created something for him. Mhm. So when they sinned, God asked him, "Who told you?" He said, "See this wife that

Andrew Kibe: you gave me that I never asked for." Yeah. I was doing well

Joab Ogato: by self porcupines. Mhm. What's this? You brought me a woman who's going to me the I'm already out of the Garden of Eden. This guy used to sit like this. Fruits fill his mouth. Yeah. He used to walk with lions. He was petting tigers. Yeah. Now all that has been taken away because we can't handle it. The society needs to come together to for marriage to work. If it doesn't, marriage is going to decimate everything in its work. Yeah. So unfortunately what can we do then to bring these people together? I mean, I'm not asking because I think that you have the power to

Andrew Kibe: do it, but because I think that if we reason, if we reason together, we can probably find middle ground where the society in lives better than the society in black America right now. No, it has to burn to the ground. We have to do a whole Sodom

Joab Ogato: and Gomorrah. Nobody's listening. Yeah. Everybody

Andrew Kibe: wants their way. Everybody wants their way. Everybody now so for me I have to get to a point where my son and Ougi's daughter have hung out together so much. I mean look at these people who are getting married. You look at Gideon Moy's son. He's getting married to who? From probably not. No. These people that they interact with on that level. Yeah. You are the poor people who are getting married in poverty. Mhm. Stupidity. So these guys these are these guys are making deals. Mhm. Your daughter kings were marrying off their so that we keep the wealth. Yeah. We keep the deals happening here. But if I go down there, I get bro. This is for poverty. So right now we don't know what we're doing. So are you saying that poor people should stop getting married? 100%. You have nothing. So

Joab Ogato: poor people should not have children because the only thing you're going to raise are slaves and prostitutes. Okay. But are they a necessity? people who can I'm not going to say slaves I I don't preach in the slums okay

Andrew Kibe: yeah I don't preach to the

Joab Ogato: poor because the poor you shall have with you always okay yeah I mean I just put my word out there whoever hears hears okay so this is not a public service announcement I'm not going in state house telling people I stop getting married no there are very few people listen to me maybe even five right now only five people get this message in your book you say Indecision is weakness. Yes. Actually, you quote uh I'm going to quote a line from you. It says that and weakness is the fastest way to destroy yourself as a man. And you going to say it's because this man has been raised by mothers, raised in an environment of feelings, second-guessing, and flakiness. So, let's narrow down here on an environment of feelings. What is wrong with someone being raised in an environment of feelings? Have Have you ever been on a playground? Yeah. With kids? Yeah. Mhm. Um, and be honest

Andrew Kibe: for just for a second with me. Maybe honesty is not your thing, but for this one, you might have to just go deep. You could tell the boy who was coming from who was a mama's boy. Mhm. The word mama's boy existed for a reason. Yeah. Why? He was pumpered by the mother. Not pumpered. You can be pumpered, but when at the playground, you're a beast. You're weak. You're a beast. But this guy in the playground, he's weak. Mhm. He even plays with the girls. Mhm. Because of who? Because of mama. But the boys who came from a a family where there are a lot of boys. I mean it was clear. But isn't it possible that you could be by your father? You

Joab Ogato: could be raised by a father and still be weak. Show me an example. I mean I I don't know them. Yeah. Exactly. They don't exist. I mean they don't exist. Why would your father allow weakness within you? Maybe because you are beaten up so much that you just became weak. No. How why would your dad beat you up? I don't know. because uh he was maybe drunken or he he was up in Now we're just talking other things that don't make sense. Let's talk about let's say you had an abusive father. If you have an abusive father let's not make assumptions because we're talking about the reality on the ground. But the reality on the ground will also say that if you

Andrew Kibe: had an abusive father most likely you're going to be let's talk about let's talk about the stats. Okay. The stats are

Joab Ogato: the women are the ones who are raising children. Those are the stats. very few men very very few men for us to discuss what men are doing and when we look at the stats stats also say that men raise children better than women well I'm I'm not sure but I mean

Andrew Kibe: it's just stats you can look it up tell your guy to yeah can we find something

Joab Ogato: like yes if it's not

Andrew Kibe: there if we put don't put it

Joab Ogato: up it means it's not there and no no just just just research these are things I talk about so I've done my research okay yeah so men tend to raise kids better than women more disciplined, more uh less emotional. Mhm. Yeah. So, they're able to process whatever is happening to them. Is it bad to be emotional? I mean, what's wrong with being emotional? Explain to me like um where where would a man need emotions? Um I I feel like people who have better emotional intelligence like where give me an example say here like my mom has died. Yeah. So no, no, for instance, they you show up in a room and you find uh someone who's disabled. Mhm. And you are probably making jokes about disabled people when you're walking into the room, but you see the disabled person because you have emotional intelligence, you tone down your your No, that's that's intelligence, not emotional int that's just intelligence. You're not stupid. You're not going to be abusing. There are people who are very intelligent, but they are also arrogant and they Yeah, but emotions it's a whole new conversation. Okay. Yeah. Emotions. There there's no place. Emotions are useless for a man. They have no value. They cannot help you. Mhm. Like crying. What would crying for a man help you? It will help you heal. Heal. Heal what?

Andrew Kibe: For for instance, if you were to lose a loved one

Joab Ogato: say a family member, a mother. Let's let's go to mother. So you lose your mother and you decide to bottle it all up. You're mature. You're not crying. You're going to be standing there. Why are you crying? So So you're maturing naturally as a human being. No, no, I'm asking you. Why are you crying? Because your mom is dead. Your mom is dead. Okay. She's dead. Yes. Why are you crying? You Because you have hormones and your hormones will

Andrew Kibe: tell you to. I'm not a woman. Yeah. My emotions don't take over. I can handle death. Why can't I handle death? Why am I being unable to process death to a point where I'm crying? Well, by crying, I can't I can't handle But crying doesn't mean that you haven't crying doesn't mean that you haven't processed the death. I mean, crying means you're expressing yourself. May maybe maybe you know I can give it to you. Sometimes when the

Joab Ogato: body is being lowered and you see one of the strong people almost break

Andrew Kibe: down you can oh even me I almost broke down because everybody's looking to the strong person. Mhm. So you you in the corner there crying like a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Imagine you find your daddy crying like this. I I think it's it's valid because that can happen at some point. Take bro your father. You find your father by

Joab Ogato: the corner crying that somebody has died. What are you supposed to do

Andrew Kibe: as a man? What are you supposed to do? You comfort him. How

Joab Ogato: you? I don't know. Of course. Or pat him in the back and tell him

Andrew Kibe: it's okay. You need to look for the biggest whip and whip that weakness out of him. Puny ass. What are you doing crying as a man? Why are you crying? He's expressing. What can you do without crying? Nothing. Have you ever cried your whole life? Yes, I cried. Why did you cry? The last time I cried was 2011. Why were you crying in 2011? One of my chile died. Okay. Then I was like, [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] what am I doing, bro? I caught myself. But why were you crying though? Yeah, I was being a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Weren't you crying? Because you were you were in pain. I was I was overwhelmed. I'm not not in pain. I was overwhelmed by what had just happened. But as soon as I processed it, I also processed that I'm being a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] So is the problem crying in public then or not crying at all? I mean for man it there's no value in sharing

Joab Ogato: your crying even in being sad. Mhm.

Andrew Kibe: But I'm sad things are not working. So keep you've never been sad. See there's no value. Stop. Stop going to me. I'm just saying there's no value in in being sad. In being sad. It's okay to be sad though. And then do what with that? I mean you are in your emotions for a moment. You are sad and then I think the most important thing is what you do after the sadness. Emotions live in the imagination. For men, we should always run away from our imagination because for us we we're doers. We don't sit down and just think and the whole day you're thinking about all the good things or the bad things that ever happened. No. Those guys are busy. You're busy doing something. Daddy, you're busy organizing how she's going to go and fixing [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] and wondering where people are going

Joab Ogato: to sleep. You don't have time to

Andrew Kibe: be crying like a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Mhm. Fix your fixer. That's what men are men do. But I remember when my sister passed on and um this is what I can my mother said, my mom and her sister. They said call your grandpa, tell him to come to Nairobi and don't tell him what has huh happened. What has happened? So me was like my god because he's an old man. I think he was like 90 at the time. He's an old man. How is he going to handle that information? So I went and picked him up from the bus stage and I took him now to Montezuma funeral home. When we

Joab Ogato: got there, he doesn't understand what's happening. I tell him, hey, you know, but so we

Andrew Kibe: waited for my dad to come because now he had to be sitting down and me and my dad now break the news to him because us guys are are following the lead of the women. Mhm. Are you understanding? I'm understanding. But we are following I'm waiting to hear what the leaders the women not tell this guy what's

Joab Ogato: happened. Yeah. Because the women think he's going to get a heart attack and die. Yeah. So we tell him, okay, you know, Jerry Jerry

Andrew Kibe: some the way they put in Jerry is now my sister. Jerry

Joab Ogato: is no more. Mhm. The guy does this. Okay. Mhm. What does that mean? When is the funeral? That's it. Mhm. That's it. When are we burying her? Mhm. For someone who we have been thinking that

Andrew Kibe: he's going to collapse and die the moment he hears this, he processed it for less than 5 minutes. But isn't it possible that the fact that he had you the two of you guys standing next to him? He was able to process it. No, he I

Joab Ogato: mean, who are you crying to here, bro? He processed it in less than

Andrew Kibe: 5 minutes. And then he asked, "So, what next?" Because that's what men do. So, when Is there something we can do to bring her back? No. Okay. Then we continue. Mhm. Now, this is the way of the man. This

Joab Ogato: mambo of living is doing in this emotion and now you're wasting time crying. That means nothing.

Andrew Kibe: It solves nothing. It goes nowhere. It doesn't help you as a man. Get out of those [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] emotions that

Joab Ogato: are put in there by your mother. That's why when you sit with women, you become like a woman. That's why when a man has been staying with women for too long, he starts to exhibit those even starts to look like a woman. Mhm. with some two married men. Biggest mistake I made. Right. So, and Ali Mhm. And we plan. Should we car those names? No. I I wish there's a photo of So, you put it up. Yeah. Then the guy wakes up in the morning. We have a plan. We're going for lunch. His wife. Yes. But his allegiance is to his wife, Ka, not

Andrew Kibe: to you. No, your allegiance is to your word as a man. Okay. Not to human beings. It's to your word as a man. Mhm. Why did you agree to this [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] But the is your wife? But plans can change though. We

Joab Ogato: can change our mind. Plans can change. Yeah. I mean, we can change plans. Yeah. Because you're a woman. So, Ka, you could wake

Andrew Kibe: up. You're a woman. You could wake up this morning and tell me was not for women because women change their minds all the time. Okay. in war if you desert me I'm supposed to kill you and I will be given an an an award when but there are there are women in

Joab Ogato: armies now though yeah I mean America became stupid but countries that are not stupid don't have women in army or in the disciplined forces so do you think there's no women army women in the army

Andrew Kibe: in in countries like China I'm not saying I don't think I don't know the I don't know which countries have but it's

Joab Ogato: a very stupid thing to have a woman in

Andrew Kibe: the army to have a woman doing uh

Joab Ogato: this type of thing how is she going to stop a man how She

Andrew Kibe: because she because of the power of a bullet you give a you give you give a bullet even to a 5-year-old child they can stop a king a president they can stop for the sake of it now two two two men and

Joab Ogato: uh two two police officers who are men and one police

Andrew Kibe: officer was a man and a woman who who would you prefer to come to

Joab Ogato: answer the distress call at your house that's a good question tags are there that's a good question I would prefer to have the gun myself and

Andrew Kibe: take No, no. I've just asked you about this too. So, forget about what's happening in your house. You prefer

Joab Ogato: the dudes, right? Because you know the dudes are going to sort out whatever problem. The woman is a liability. But I she's probably going to get by those tags to give credibility. Are you see what I'm saying? She's a liability. But let's give credit to the women. They can't allow or rather they should not allow women in submarines. Why? Because they're in

Andrew Kibe: closed space. They'll be bro women and men are supposed to be working in the same place especially not in the discipline forces. Mhm. Yeah. There's too much testosterone there. Okay. Yeah. For that to happen. And the women slow down the men. Women they exercises are are less than men. You know that. I didn't know that. So if men are running 10 km, women are given five. Really? And the time that they're supposed to finish is very different from the men. Have you been in the army? But you're telling me these people are going to go fight the same enemy? Wait. Have you been in the army? Just go with me for a second then. Okay. A woman is supposed to run 100 m maybe in 15 seconds. Mhm. A man is supposed to run 100 m in 10 seconds. Yeah. Or maybe let's say woman 20, the man 15. Normal kawa human being like me and you. Mhm. Well, I probably would do it in longer. But yeah. So 15 seconds, 20 seconds. Why? We're fighting the same enemy. The enemy doesn't care whether it's a man or a woman or the other side. So why dilute the forces by bringing women to reduce the the average speed? Physically a woman and a man are very different. I mean physically physically it doesn't matter what you say. No but but let's let's go to the boxing. When we go to boxing uh if if men want to go boxing you can't get any normal 50y old and another 50y old and put them in a ring together. They have different levels I think of weight and they'll be fighting on the accord. Are you saying the same weight category of a man and same weight category of a woman they would it would be an equal match? I would I would imagine that that there's some credit in that. No, it wouldn't. Just Just stop being silly. You're being silly now. Are you telling me the same the same

Joab Ogato: way guy would I mean would the same not not in not in boxing with a gun? With a gun. So long as you have a gun so long as you Let's go to guns. Yeah. Um the best marksmen in this world are women. I Well, I don't know. They're not. Mhm. Yeah. I only know one guy from the picture of that guy from Turkey in in Russia in the in the Olympics. My my point

Andrew Kibe: to you is this. The the place where women excel

Joab Ogato: is in getting babies, okay? And raising them. That's the only thing the man cannot do. Everything else the woman falls short of what the man can do. It doesn't matter which discipline. It doesn't matter what it is you say. Like now uh the guy who was number 450 in swimming

Andrew Kibe: listen to this. Yes. This guy was in swimming in men's category. Let me finish that point. Yeah. He crossed over and became trans and he's number one in the women's. Mhm. The most useless man in

Joab Ogato: tennis can beat the number one tennis female

Andrew Kibe: tennis player. This is just genetics. It's not me saying it. But what we're talking about here is endurance. Endurance sports. So tennis, there's lot lots of running in uh Show me one sport where women do better than men. one this no I I would imagine even indoor sports even darts no I'm I'm only even chess something that you use the brain but I'm only imagining just because we have not put them out on the map doesn't mean that they're not there it's possible that because of ideologies like let's let's talk about things that are real that's not real so right now there's no woman who does anything better than a man there must be not even business you know things that where you don't need to be physically fit but is indeed possible that it is because women have not been given opportunities to excel in business and all these other things like Opera I don't know Caroline MCO you know they don't have the opportunities I mean probably they have a ceiling that stops

Joab Ogato: them from which ceiling you have you got

Andrew Kibe: to the ceiling I have I got to the ceiling yet I hope that there's no ceiling for me yeah so maybe there's no ceiling but I but I think there's a ceiling as a black man there's a ceiling for me and shattering it is going to take a lot of work what do you mean as a black man as a black man because uh I feel like um uh for the past I'd say the past six years M maybe since the George Floyd thing happened, I feel like it's been the best time to be a black person because you would excel in any field

Joab Ogato: because opport because the barriers that were there were taken away. But I feel like now the barriers are actively being put back. There were no barriers to talk about things that are real like what you say black man. So for for instance for instance you'd see that uh there are people in some quarters we talk about you talking about me. Yeah. No, for so for me my as a black man. So you as a black man, what are the barriers that were there that made it impossible for you to succeed? So I I I believe that um when I applied to my position, I was actively picked because they were specifically looking for black. So it was DEI. You're a DEI hire. You could well

Andrew Kibe: when you say DI hire, it has a negative connotation to it. I think I am I was qualified for the role. I was qualified for the sport

Joab Ogato: but because there were other barriers that were there for me because either you're DEI or you're

Andrew Kibe: not. Are you a DIY? I I would not say I'm a DIY. So, you were qualified. I was qualified and they employed you. Yes. And what's the problem with that? The problem is that the other folks may not get No, no, we're talking about you. What's the problem with the with with Oh, you were qualified

Joab Ogato: and they hired you. So, you're not a DEI hire. I I will not say I'm a DEI hire even if they were No, no, no. you they are you are qualified and they employ you. What's the problem? Why are you talking about like what is this black man? So the ceiling here is there in this sense when you look statistically statistically you would see that um black people would

Andrew Kibe: be uh let's talk about Johnson. Johnson is a black man in America. Yes. He applied for a job as a professor and he was given and now they've trusted Joab Johnson to stand in front of the class and teach people whatever he knows. Yeah. Whatever they hired him for. Yeah. Okay. Where's the black man story coming from? The black man story is coming from the fact that I am black because people will will will imagine that because I am black I may not be qualified enough. How long have you been working there? Uh I'm been teaching now for three four years. Four years. Yeah. So you're probably doing something right. I am doing I'm

Joab Ogato: excellent in my thing. Okay. I think so. Yeah. So what's the problem? No. For me there why why you going back to being a black man? No. Aren't you Aren't you living in white America? There are other black men. No. My daughter is black. I got think about Nobody cares about other people. We talk about you. Okay. I could forget about Malcolm X and Tupac. Let's talk about Jo. Okay. Is he living the American dream? Am I living the American dream? Well, I live in Canada, actually. So, am I living the Canadian dream? You're living in Canada. Okay. Yeah. So, you're teaching in Canada. Yeah. I I live the Canadian dream, I'd say. Yeah. Yes. So, you made it from North Mirango. Mhm. Traveled all that way. Yeah. And now you're a professor teaching other people who probably don't even have your

Andrew Kibe: skin skin color. Mhm. And they've trusted you and you stand there and you teach them every day. Why the are you talking about blackness? You have made it. The rest of them if they want to die they die. You have made it. You found the secret. You went you did what had

Joab Ogato: to be done. You knew what you had to do. No. No. But because you're a professor. Okay. So meaning you

Andrew Kibe: you spend the time it it was needed to study. You did bro just imagine to get to a point where you're a professor that right now they're waiting for Joab Johnson son. Mhm. or to leave Kenya and go back and teach where the blackness is. So what I'm talking about here though is this there's someone actively step up to

Joab Ogato: create those opportunities for people like me. What do you mean? So who's that? Who's that?

Andrew Kibe: Who stepped up to make that? So the the the the person who decided to hire me actively created that opportunity for me. So the position never existed. The position No, it existed. I mean, so did you apply like everybody else? Yes, I applied like everybody else. So, were you qualified? Yes, I was qualified. Why are you talking which person is this? So, what I'm saying now is that the people who are coming after me who you're telling me that I should ignore, while they are qualified, they will come and get an opportunity to put their foot in. Only why are you special? Am I special? I mean, I'm I'm not special. I So, why do you think this exist opportunity only exists for you? It doesn't only exist for me. It should also exist for them. But are you the only professor to come from Kenya in Canada? No, I'm not the only one. I know of at least two others in What about America? There are many professors. In America, there's many Kenyans that I've met here who are professors that are professors in the UK. Everywhere where there are Kenyans, they are professors. The opportunities exist. Grab them. Mhm. Simple as that. Let's get out of our blackness. It is disgusting to hear you as a as a as a proud uh professor, somebody who is proud of the job that you're doing to go back into this victimhood of blackness because it does not affect you. It is not about being a victim. It is about being real about what is there in in in what is your reality? My reality. Your reality is that you have

Joab Ogato: a nice house. You have a nice car. You're able to travel back and forth to your

Andrew Kibe: country whenever you want. You can even even have so much uh leeway that you can even do podcasting. Mhm. That's your reality. Mhm. Somebody else's reality is their business. It's not yours. Unless you've been sent by God to come and save the black man. Show me those receipts. Show me the SMS that God told you. Go save the black nation. Where is it? Do you have I I don't have that. I I don't think that's my that's my war to fight. I don't think it's my war to fight for the black man. But I But the little that I can do is speak up. Speak up so that it is speak up so that it's known that there are barriers. Why? Why? Why don't you tell us your story? Don't you think that would be a more powerful thing? Probably. What do you mean probably? Why don't you tell us your story and say, "Hey, listen. This is my story. I left this place. I traveled. The first time I saw an underpass, I went here. I did this and then I managed and this is what I did to get here.

Joab Ogato: And these are the tricks that you can use, the resilience that you need, and you need to get here to get here." That is a better story than you telling a story about blacks and 400 years of you being mistreated. You don't know that story. I do. Tell us. You don't know. Well, I don't tell the story I have read about it. No, no, no. Tell us the story you have lived. Your story is more powerful. Don't tell us what you read. I want to hear. But let me let me hear. You left. You left. You struggled to get your visa. You had to sleep. You wear you had to sell your diabs. Then when you went into into Canada, you had to wash in. You had to sleep with big this big fly fat white woman to get your papers. And when you got your papers, then it was it was time to call the love of your life into Canada. You know, those are the things

Andrew Kibe: you tell us. Mhm. But don't tell us about 400 years what you read. I can read it. Tell me where to go read. You tell me your story. Mhm. You get the difference. I hear what you're saying. Tell me where to go read. I hear what I can read. Just like you. But but like I said, I have decided that not to be my war. I've decided I have decided not to make a war, you know, talking about, you know, hund hundreds of years of the emasculation of black men and and whatnot. But I what I can do though is talk about what is there now because there's active push back against the progress of black women. Isn't Isn't it better to hear your story and how you succeeded against all that active push back? Can't we have both? No, we can't because your story is better than what you what you've read. I want to hear what you have been

Joab Ogato: been through. Yeah. So, whatever you think you know is nonsense. What have you been through? How did you succeed? That's the story. I

Andrew Kibe: want to see a better story. It's it's a much better story. When you go to just because it's a better story doesn't mean that there's no other story to talk about. Let the other people deal with their problems. That's not your problem. But your problem is what you dealt with and you overcame. So tell us how that

Joab Ogato: story looks like. That story looks like and how you overcame. That's a much better story than telling us about oh how the white man is trying to keep No, you're a professor. Mhm. You're a professor. But you

Andrew Kibe: see Yeah. So the white man is trying to do nothing. These

Joab Ogato: are just in life. I feel like if we don't speak about it then you know it it sort of becomes like Why are you speaking about it? Where are you speaking about it? Why am I speaking about it? Where where which which forums? So I I I I speak about so every time I'm talking to my student the very last class I will tell them to give opportunities to black people. That's [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] I have majority black white student. You need to you need to stop that. You need to stop that victim. Yeah. Because you're not doing them right. You need everybody to to exist in their own independence. Yeah. Because you have been given a you created the opportunity for yourself. You realize bro I'm not making it 2003. First things first, I must go see this [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Bro, those are the stories we like to hear. You want to hear the story of me working so hard in one year and then realizing that I had all this money in my account and I could buy the car that I want to buy. Where is the white man coming in that story? I didn't have a driver's license. Those are the stories you want to hear. This is the operations here to Weren't you afraid when you didn't have a driver? Afraid for what? America is so easy. Growing up, were you ever did you ever get corporal punishment growing up? Oh, all the time. All the time. I was a bad boy. Yeah. So, everywhere I got corporal punishment. But now when I go

Andrew Kibe: to America because I don't I didn't have the papers to drive. Yeah. I had to be at my best behavior. Everybody does that. Yeah. very few arrests of Kenyans in America because of bad behavior because we know what we're there to do. So those are the stories I want to hear from you guys who are in the diaspora. Don't tell us about what the white man has been doing to the black

Joab Ogato: man there. We want to know why you are still there. How many years have you been

Andrew Kibe: in America? I mean in Canada this my almost 10 years. How did you survive the 10 years? Well by working hard I guess and and following the law. Those are the things we need to hear. So the people in your village or the people who are listening to you, they need to hear how did you overcome? Let's talk about that. That's that one I can sit here and talk all day. But um you know if we were to talk about the reality on the ground though, majority of um the Kenyan people that we're talking about who live in America while they are working hard, they may not be in places where they wish to be as as opposed to as opposed to um who who's they wish to be? They would wish to

Joab Ogato: be they would wish to probably be doing something better than what they are

Andrew Kibe: doing right now. But because of who they are, because of where they came from, they wish I wish I was on Joe Rogan. Mhm. I wish this time I would be spending with Joe Rogan, but I have to spend it with you. Okay. So wishes wishes mean nothing. Yeah, I hear what you mean. Yeah. Yeah. So don't don't be a captain. You know what a captain is? No. Captain. Mhm. Yeah. Stop fighting other people's fights, bro. You're doing so well. Mhm. You have such a nice podcast, nice setup. Yeah. Yeah. You're doing so well. You're you're thriving. You even have enough resources now to start a family. Mhm. You're doing so well. Get out of this victimhood and stop selling it. Yeah. Yeah. Because victimhood has is not part of you. It's something they put in your head when they were teaching you to be a professor. Mhm. Yeah. And now you are carrying it every day. Ed education is uh meant to inculcate victimhood. Is that what you're saying? It does. Especially in the west western universities they do that they teach a lot of victim because the person who is teaching you is a loser. Okay. So he has to put all that loserness in all of you. So K you just turned me around into a loser and you just say because I'm a teacher essentially. I mean look at what you're doing at the end of the class. You're going to victimhood. You you've taught so well how to regenerate even dicks and then at the end you say and make sure you eat at black own restaurants to the blacks. Yeah. [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] everybody including you. You must get what you want to get in this life. I'm not going to give it to you. Mhm. Go out there and get it. It belongs to whoever gets it. Yeah. You reached out to have this podcast. Yeah. I mean, just think about that. I I am in Nairobi. I exist. you made a took a chance and said let me call as soon as you got those contacts you were able to communicate and here we are but if you had said oh you know k is very evil k doesn't talk to people nicely would I be here no you know so you you would never know what you don't know when people are calling me uh when I told my a couple of my friends that I'm going to have k on the pod they told me watch out because ka might take over your pod right but I but I think that you Do you think you're misunderstood? I don't even care. You don't care. Why don't you care? It has I mean no monetary value. Mhm. But don't don't you think that the you thrive on the ideas that you create in people's minds about who you are and that's why you have such a huge following and that should make you care. No, I I don't have a huge following. I'm just followed by one person. Okay. So every time when I'm when I talk when I do my shows I'm doing them for myself. Mhm. Audience of one. Okay. Yeah. So I don't care 100,000 people watching or not. It's audience of one. That's why even when I did the book I wrote it for myself. So the influence what you're getting and you can if you you read the book right? Yeah. The 28 commandments are my examples. I didn't use another person's examples. I said hey this was me. Remember I did this and did this and went here. you you only talked about other people's examples when you're talking about bad things. I remember you talking about people like Mr. and Mr. Dabs and you know I mean but you know in justest Yeah. But all all the experiences are mine. Mhm. Cuz that's what I know. Yeah. So if you gravitate towards that experience and you not just gravitate relate then do you think it's important to

Joab Ogato: have people in your life you know as a man do you think it's important to have like you know like one or two people who will hold you either accountable or you know support you as you work towards your dream and I'm only saying this because um in the book you say that uh you went to the demonstrations and you were there with um Eric and with uh I forget the name of the other guy, the security guy. Caris. Yes. So, would you say that you need these people, you know, every man needs someone in their corner to uh in order to move forward in their dream? Not not that in in that sense. You see, Eric is somebody I I call upon when I need him. Mhm. Yeah. He has his own private life. Yeah. His own thing that he's doing. But if there's something that can bring us together, I call

Andrew Kibe: upon him and tell him, "Eric, I need you here. I need us to do this." Mhm.

Joab Ogato: So he finds time or he organizes because that's that's his part in my life. Yeah. Okay. Karice is a security guy. Mhm. The one who makes sure that nobody's going to do [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] to

Andrew Kibe: me. Yeah. That's another person who you see the role they're playing

Joab Ogato: in my life. It's not that abstract just hang out. Uh-uh. That doesn't make sense to me. So you you don't have like close friends who say that, you know, this is my ride or die guy that I'm hanging out. Doesn't exist, bro. That doesn't exist. These are functional relationships. George IQ Watson was your very good friend or very functional relationship. Okay. Yes. So if it

Andrew Kibe: wasn't serving the function you he'd not been in your life. I mean these days we don't talk with him. Mhm. There's nothing to talk about because the function that was having us talking it does not exist. Did you did your

Joab Ogato: friendship would you say that your friendship

Andrew Kibe: died? There's nothing like friendship. The day another function the day something else comes up. Hey hey I need this from you. If he needs something he's going to call me. But it's this friendship is it's a woman based kind of a relationship. Okay. Where I have to check on people for what? For what? For what? So, I can say 3 weeks without calling this guy and I call him it'll be negro tomorrow. What are we doing? Yeah. We don't how is the family? I think I've asked

Joab Ogato: him about his daughter only once this year. Yeah. If he has something to say, he will tell me. If he has a problem, he will tell me. Same with me. Yeah. But it's just can we work together with this person? It's a functional relationship. Yeah. Yes. Even when your parents stop being functional. You you did ride 47. Um and my understanding you know from social media and from reading the book you did write 47 because you were trying to rediscover something or you know find something in Kenya or something like that. Is that would you say that that is true? My interpretation is true. Okay. Not not exactly that. Mhm. Um, when I did write 47, I was actually looking for something. I was bored. Mhm. I was like, man, what can I do? My content is is not giving me as much um satisfaction as it did before. Yeah. And um I'd been cancelled heavily uh 2024. Yeah. The demonstration. No, there was just a whole thing. So, the demonstration was the last nail in the coffin. So, and I was all over the place n so I'd been

Andrew Kibe: really canceled. Nobody wanted to hear my stories. I was like, "Man, I need to get my mojo

Joab Ogato: back. How do I do that?" Um, I was like, "Man, let me let me look for something that challenges me completely." So, I talked to a buddy of mine called Issa at the Coast. Mhm. And I told him, "Hey

Andrew Kibe: bro, you want to do something wild?" We go around this country in 47 days. Yeah. All counties. Oh, it was 47 days. 47 counties in 47 days. So, I didn't get the 47 days part. I only got the 47 counties. Yes. 47 counties in 47 days. I didn't want to say. So, one day a county, one day a county. Mhm. So we mapped

Joab Ogato: it out the closer it came to it. So Issa was not able to make it. Yeah. One one reason or the other. But I was fortunate enough to get some two guys who by the way they just brought themselves. Mhm. Micah and uh Daniel Yeah. somehow found a way that we did the 47 uh counties in 47 days. Yeah. So when I went around the counties I realized Allah Gib you are a star and

Andrew Kibe: not just a star superstar. Why because of these puny people on

Joab Ogato: the internet, but on the ground you love every you know I just kept growing bigger and bigger in my head and I'm like ah okay I had let my imagination

Andrew Kibe: get the better of me and then now my mojo started to come back and I was like okay my I mean I'm still here I'm still here and by the time I was come back Nairobi bro it was it was uh it was wonderful. Yeah. Yeah. So, it was just that I was bored and I wanted something to do. So, I came up with that challenge. Mhm. And

Joab Ogato: it was extremely challenging. One of the most challenging things I've ever had to do in my life. Yeah. But I'm I'm glad that I I managed to do it because now when I look back, I can say

Andrew Kibe: if I did that, what is this? You get like I I got the biggest bullies. 47 counties in 47 days. Mhm. doing over 300 km

Joab Ogato: a day on a

Andrew Kibe: on a bike. On a motorcycle that is 250 cc, you cannot go more than 100 km an

Joab Ogato: hour. Mhm. And you don't even have money. Mhm. You have you don't have the right gear. You bro, I the first day I rode with a funny helmet to Machakos. Then the helmet was brought from Nairobi to Machakos. Now the right one that I was

Andrew Kibe: supposed to to use. Mhm. If I had fallen with I fell twice. If I had fallen with the first helmet, you I'd probably be dead.

Joab Ogato: Was it a bad accident? The two accidents, were they bad? They were they were they were dramatic. Let's say that because I was standing and then you know and I'm tall. You guy fell from me about You were standing on the bike. Yeah. You were you know I was chasing Micah.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. Was it in a rocky? So we got to place where

Joab Ogato: them chases like this. Okay.

Andrew Kibe: And the bike just went in there. He was thrown. Mhm. And I was like [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] So that was the second time. But yeah, it it is uh the challenge was so so big for me because I I was removed from my comfort zone. Yeah. Things like this. This is me. Mhm. You're like living like this. Mhm. You know, equipment. You I'm out there in the bund. I saw the couple of hotels that you were sleeping in. uh out there in the bundus totally out of your comfort zone and every morning if you drink tonight every morning you have to wake up pack the bike cuz you have to park the bike. Mhm. Takes another maybe 10 minutes which is was very tedious for me and then now plan the route how are we going and now go another two 300 km that day.

Joab Ogato: Mhm. Yeah. So it was extremely challenging but a lot of fun and um made me realize I could do a lot more than I thought I would. Would you consider

Andrew Kibe: doing something like that across the world? Oh yeah, I would love to. I've even written to to a couple of these companies. Tell them, give me a

Joab Ogato: couple of bikes. Yeah. Let me take

Andrew Kibe: my my boys. We've already proved we can do Kenya. Let's do Africa. Once we're done with Africa, let's go to Asia.

Joab Ogato: Let's go to India. Let's go to China. Let's go to America, Australia. I would love I would love to do it. And if I can make it work, I'll make it work. Yeah. One of the thing things

Andrew Kibe: I want to do is to walk across Canada. Oh. for real. Yeah. Well, maybe not walk, but cycle and kayak. So, I'll probably, you know, get a bicycle, a a simple bicycle and get an inflatable kayak. And then I'll Well, then attach something at the back there. No, I that will make it heavy. So, I want I want it just to be

Joab Ogato: like a carrier at the back of the bike, not something I'm drawing like something I'm that's on the on the bicycle. And your clothes? My clothes? I'm a simple guy, so I'll probably have a handful of clothes. Which is the best time to to do it? During the warmest time. During the warmest time. So it's probably not possible to do it in the 3 4 months when we have the summer. So I'll probably do it over a couple of years. So right to this point and you know come back the following year and the following year

Andrew Kibe: and so on and so forth. Oh that's how you're thinking. Oh it's not that in Fizo. In Fiza I can do what I what I what I can do immediately in Fizo is walk there something we call the Bruce uh Peninsula Trail. So you walk from a place called um Tobury to Niagara Falls. You probably heard of Niagara Falls. And that's probably a 40-day walk in

Joab Ogato: the

Andrew Kibe: in the forest. So I fear bears.

Joab Ogato: So I want to face bears. And maybe I don't know what I'm trying to achieve, you

Andrew Kibe: know, doing that. Yeah. Yeah. So I think where you know I saw Mo yesterday. Mhm. In China. In China. Yeah. And he did a bungee jump.

Joab Ogato: And I think his mic was still connected. Yeah. So he kept saying, "I faced my fears. face my fears and I was smiling. I was like, "Yeah, go

Andrew Kibe: on. Come on." You faced your fears. Face that fear, bro. Let that thing kill

Joab Ogato: you, bro. I was so afraid that you of doing that ride. Yeah. I remember we were coming from Loa. That was a combination of two things. Mhm. Yeah. I taken coffee and

Andrew Kibe: some nice shashamani. Mhm. Because a part I figured and I got overwhelmed and I was like, man, this is the best thing I've ever done. I I could feel I could feel tears. You know those tears you guys like crying. I could feel those tears coming up to stop the mic. Could this be a proof that KB cries? I could feel the tears. I could I got extremely emotional because I've never seen the world the way I'm seeing it. So it was so massive. Yeah. It was so massive. I felt the this is so huge. Mhm. Because there was nothing on the left or on the right. There were no houses. There are no people, no buildings, nothing. Bro, you've never seen anything like that. Bro, there are no trees. Yeah. So when you see you you see all the way to the edge of the earth. You see all the way to the edge of the earth. There's nothing to see.

Joab Ogato: Just you and your three two three two three two three two three two three two three two friends. Just my two friends are ble I'm alone here. The bike is supposed to go to 100. The the tundu and the coffee are working on me now. My paranoia is working and I'm seeing the world. I'm seeing we're about to fall off

Andrew Kibe: the

Joab Ogato: edge of the universe. I stopped the bike before I became a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] and started crying. I took off my helmet.

Andrew Kibe: I was like what the is going on, man? Yeah. But I I totally understand some of the things people do like walking like you saying you want to walk. Uh do it. Mhm. Let the bears kill you. My god. I love bear spray. Yeah. I mean hopefully it helps. Exactly. But if a bear shows up, you do what you need to do. Yeah. But I think I'd be very scared if I met a bear face to face. You probably [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] yourself. Most likely. Most likely. You know, you you um there's something you talk about mastery in your book

Joab Ogato: Mastering Something. And you talk about, you know, when you met this guy uh when you were playing pool and the guy was an older guy and he kept kept beating you and you asked him and he he told you the the reason why I'm able to beat you is because I practice the same shot every day. I don't need variety. I need mastery. You think we all need mastery in our lives? I mean, one thing that's a quickest way to success. Yeah. Because I mean, everybody wants a master. Mhm. Bro, we sit at the feet of masters. Like now, if you have a problem with your drainage. Mhm. I'm going to call a plumber. Probably the plumber once he opens you open the door

Andrew Kibe: and it's a plumber, you already have hashima for him. Yeah. Because he's coming to fix a problem for you. Yeah. So people normally would remove their shoes, you

Joab Ogato: tell him, "No, not just coming. You are a special one." First because his socks probably smell like [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Yeah. But also because he doesn't need to. Mhm. He's coming to solve a bigger problem than me having to clean up my floor. Yeah. So rush, go deal with the problem. He's a master. So masters get a seat at the table. Mhm. What? Even if you're a master of making buttons, you get a seat at the table as a master. So you send Bolt, Messi, Ronaldo, all those masters sit at the same Michael Jordan, Nani, they all

Andrew Kibe: sit at the same table. Yeah. Even if you're a master of Dutch, you're going

Joab Ogato: to sit on with them on the same table. Yeah. Yeah. So monster something. Mhm. Yeah. Like now like

Andrew Kibe: um in 2023 I won the the SASMA award. Mhm. What is that? It's called the South Africa Social Media Star of the Year award. So I was a social media star of the year for that from my mastery Yeah. of the podcasting. There was nobody else who could win that. It was just me because there's only one. There can only be one master. People like to hang around masters. Let me ask you, how did you master how did you craft yourself into this um beast? This was a good idea. It was good. I listen to you. Yeah. Why? Why was it a good idea? No, it's it's giving me keeping me busy. Plus, it's keeping me hydrated. Yeah. So, why did you um why did you No, sorry. How did you craft yourself into becoming the beast that you became on social media? I didn't know that I was going to become a beast. me just doing being yourself. I was just doing and at the time when you don't have noise in your head. Mhm. Then it's easy. Everything was signal. Yeah. It's signal.

Joab Ogato: So every time I hear my my brain going this like hey signal we don't have time. Mhm. We don't have time

Andrew Kibe: for that nonsense cuz everybody knows

Joab Ogato: what that is. Yeah. So living in your imagination that is not signal. That is uh what do you call it? Noise. Yeah. So signal is focusing on whatever it is that you've decided you want to focus on. Mhm. So when I decided I want to focus on podcasting

Andrew Kibe: that's all I did. Yeah. Mhm. So even at the time uh luckily the the job I was doing the the the the van that I was driving uh caught on fire. Mhm. And that van used to take a lot of my time away from me. So um Were you the

Joab Ogato: one driving it when No, no, it was just at the parking lot. Okay. Yeah. So it just caught on fire. It was must have been lucky. It was summer time. Yeah. So

Andrew Kibe: it was just one of those unfortunate things. So that van is one which would take a lot of time that I never had. So my YouTube was very erratic at the time. Yeah. Because if I'm driving the van, I can't do YouTube. So today I do YouTube, tomorrow I don't do. Today I do, tomorrow I don't do. When the van uh to make it. So me and George

Joab Ogato: we agreed. We said, "Okay, um let's focus on this thing." Yeah. Yeah. So help me focus on my YouTube. So the job that I have to do between my YouTube time, we find somebody else or he could pick them up. Mhm. And then me would focus on the YouTube. So

Andrew Kibe: make sure that we do the YouTube every day. So now there's a responsibility shared responsibility between George and I. Yeah. That there's no way he's going to ler I mean

Joab Ogato: to do my job. He's going to do my work and then me I don't do the YouTube. Yeah. So it was you know iron sharpens iron. Yes. You have to so I have to do the YouTube. Mhm. Because he has done the job. Yeah. So that that's so I

Andrew Kibe: focused on that and I now I started growing it and then I realized what more tools do I need? Just just like you. Mhm. Which lights do I need? I had the noisy lights. Do I get this? Do I get that? building where these people come from their houses to tell them to come and listen to me. So the beast exists inside you in the form

Joab Ogato: of doing. Yeah. True. As simple as that. The beast is exists inside you in

Andrew Kibe: the form of doing. When you do, you shall you're walking towards mastery. Yeah. And one day people will call you a master without even you considering yourself as one. Do you think that there's something we are all called to do or something we're very good

Joab Ogato: at and maybe there's something holding us back from that

Andrew Kibe: because let's say you are in a full-time employment and that full-time employment is holding you back from achieving that thing that you'd like to no become good at. No, no, no. There's nothing holding you back. You're exactly where you want to be. Okay. There's nothing holding you back because the people who want to whatever you want to do, you want to do. Is there something holding you back from taking a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Either you're going to take a [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] here or you're going to go to the loop if the toilet is. Exactly. But there's nothing holding you back. You're exactly where you should be. Mhm. Because how can you wake up somebody from sleep? Uh like to stand up from like unconsciousness into consciousness. Uh it might need some very strong it's impossible. Yeah. Yeah. That person has to wake up themselves. Yeah. So whatever they are, they have to fix that [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] and wake up and come. So the only people you can deal with are people who are awake. Yeah. If you're not awake, take care of yourself. You deal with your struggles. I don't know how am I supposed to help you. Yesterday, I saw something in, you know, in Uganda where Musevani said that he's running for office again. But what he says in essence is that I'm running for office for the very last time. So come out in large

Joab Ogato: numbers and vote for me because I have projects to finish. Yes. Do you think we need to understand that it's time for us to exit the the stage so that you know we can while we are still strong so that we can observe someone else dancing on our stage? Think about think about how strong someone like MV is. The Ugandas are not weak people. Think about it. Ugandas are not weak by any Mhm. Yeah. But well they are I feel like they are fearful of what? of um oppression by the government as opposed to Kenyans. Have you been to Uganda? Yes, I have been a couple of times. Those guys, they eat, they drink, they party like crazy, they [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Mhm. They enjoy their country and that silly English they speak, you know. They love it. They're oppressed by who? Only Kiz and Bobby Wine are the ones oppressed. And Bobby Wine is is being paid by Gava. Do you know that? I didn't know that. Yes. really government security, government, house, government everything. Hey, so this guy is just there to create some confusion. This is the game. Okay. This is their game. So whenever they

Andrew Kibe: play their game, ask guys, why are we getting involved? So

Joab Ogato: when you is playing a game, too? Everybody's play. You think is playing a game? Honestly, I think so, bro. They're all playing a game. The only person who's being played is you. True. Because all these guys are friends. podcast because when I think about it all these guys are friends you know Riy Gi and Ruto and you know whoever they are all they've been friends before it's like you know if you and me are friends today and you like you said that functional relationship maybe tomorrow we're not functional but 5 years from now we are functional again is does it work for us because when I look at R and Raa they were friends in 2007 and for in 2022 they we were here in the streets fighting for Raa or R and now they are together again because they're friend they probably run businesses together and stuff like that. You you've been to Raa's place. What do you think? Is his interest in us or is he interest in himself? Is Ra your personal friend would you say? Uh no. I met him a couple of times. I wouldn't say he's my personal friend. I don't even think he knows me. Mhm. Yeah. Maybe he knows of me. Yeah. He doesn't even remember whether we met or not. But um this is their game. Yeah. If you want to play the game, get in. Mhm. Yeah. But from outside, us guys don't know what's happening. We're like kids who are watching WWE. You think those kids know that that [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] is fake? When I was a kid, I didn't know it was real. Exactly. Oh my god, this guy's jumping high. Many kids got ma'am. Mhm. Because of trying that [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] until they had to do a public service announcement. This is not real. Mhm. Okay. These are professional actors. They even had to put these are professional professionals and don't try this at home. Yeah.

Andrew Kibe: So as a kid, so maybe as we children, we will never understand the politics of these people. True. Because you're looking at it. Oh my god, look at this. But look who them. They're like high-fiving in the evening. Look at you. Yeah. So if you found out that that was true, what would you do with that information? I feel stupid. I think exactly. Mhm. So I want you to start feeling stupid now. Mhm. So unless you're playing the game, why would you have an opinion? You watch like a spectator. True. So I'm happy being a spectator. Yes, man. Keep it's been fun having you on this show, man. You're always a great vibe. There's this as we're landing this plane, there's this tradition we have here where I treat all my guests as presidents who are basically leaving office. I brought this from the US and in the US when when the president is leaving office, they normally give a letter. They leave a letter written to the

Joab Ogato: next president who's coming into office. And so since all we do here is have a conversation and ask questions. the guest who was here most recently left a question for you and

Andrew Kibe: you're also going to get an opportunity to leave a question for the next

Joab Ogato: guest on the show. And so your question is what would you do or say if you were to go back in time that probably altered how you live now positively or negatively. Man, I don't understand this question at all. It doesn't make sense. For me it doesn't. Maybe it does to you. No, I mean I think that's why I wrote the book. Okay. Yeah. So I think there are too there are too many the 28 things I would not not do. What is the one thing that if I was to go back in time I would want to change there's a chick I bombard in Dor man that one it hurt me to my core. Why? Cuz it was not something I wanted to do. Bro I hated myself. Mhm. You know, I never hit myself when I watch, but that day I was like, man, this one like dude like what the is this man? You become a

Andrew Kibe: homosexual. Oh man. My question to your guest in front of all. So, you're going to write it down. I I normally don't see the question until the guest is right in front of me. Yeah, it's fine. Just going to do that. Oh, so you're not going to read it until Yeah, until Yeah, I don't want to think about it, you know, and start, you know, framing my head, man. Thanks. Thanks a lot for being here, Ke man. Uh, you've, you know, you've u I hope uh I hope that we were valuable enough for your time also for you to come here. Um, and it's possible that, you know, in my in my line of questioning, maybe I didn't ask a right question at some point to evoke a certain uh thing that you would have loved to say, but as you're parting short right now, you can tell the folks, you know, one thing. M no I enjoy every moment of life. Mhm. So I watched Andrew Tate and his brother sitting on a bench somewhere discussing about the good times and the bad times. And Androate told his his brother years from now this would be the good times. We shall sit back and remember this moment. So yesterday I was with a friend of mine called Ben and we had strategizing how we're going to you know do this and do that and do that and and say you know things are thick. I was like hey these are the best times because once whatever comes comes then that has no that has no story. The story is in when you are looking for it. The story is when you are hustling. The story is when you are chasing it down. It may not look like it. Mhm. Because for you right now, some there are some things you can't access. You want that car or you want that girl or whatever it is that you want. There's some things you can't access now. And you that might um might weigh on you. Mhm. So I don't I don't want it to weigh on you because these are your best times. As long as you don't die, these are your best times. You have a nice You have a place to sleep, food to eat, that's it. Mhm. You shall deal with issues tomorrow because nobody knows what's coming tomorrow. The only time we have is here right now. Me and you. Yeah. We can plan for tomorrow just like Chalik. Mhm. But nobody knows about tomorrow. So we don't know a sniper somewhere waiting for me. Why should I worry about that? I only worry about this time that I'm spending with Job. Mhm. And his beautiful daughter. True. M

Joab Ogato: thanks, man. That's that's what's up. It's been awesome. All right. If you made it this far, I think it's because you did like this episode. So, if you haven't yet, do subscribe to this channel and remember to tell your friends to tell their friends. Are

Andrew Kibe: you going to put up my book? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Put Put it up so they Yeah, let's put up the book again. Uh, you know, can you can you plug the book? You

Joab Ogato: know, where they can folks can find it and

Andrew Kibe: all that. Yeah. So, you can uh go to Gumroad. Mhm. I I'll put up

Joab Ogato: the link. Yeah. And we're going to put the description the link in the description

Andrew Kibe: to the Exactly. Yeah. just got gum wrote by my book 28 commandments by Andrew Kbe a journey into manhood. This book is not for females although I know they would enjoy reading it but uh I I wrote it for myself and the man that I have in mind is my 28-year-old young self. So if you find any value in it is because you're connecting with me.

Joab Ogato: But thank you thank you for for joining us being real.

Andrew Kibe: Mhm. I love the book man. It's it's it it was interesting like I said it [Music]
