"Episode 2: A Girl Dad on a Mission|1 in 4 young women are married as children"
Stats: Views: 9,935; Likes: 330; Comments: 31.
Speaker: Philip Karanja

Narrator: Ah, the ocean breeze, it caresses your face whispering promises of peace and tranquility. A sunrise, a sunset by the sea. They remind us that everything is or should be right with the world. But here at the Kenyan Coast, not all is well. In this picturesque surroundings, a dark reality lacks beneath the surface.

Philip Karanja: How old was the man?

Young Woman: I think 28.

Philip Karanja: 28?

Young Woman: Around that, yes.

Philip Karanja: How old were you?

Young Woman: I was in Form One. Community Community

Leader 1: There is abuse that happens within the family. And sometimes, you find that the abuse is from a close relative. Maybe the rape victim is a child, and she has been raped by someone from home, maybe an uncle or the father sometimes. There are fathers that rape their children. That is something that happens. And you find that there are child pregnancies. There are areas where children are most affected. You can find a girl in primary school who is pregnant. Which means that someone was involved in impregnating the child.

Philip Karanja: As a police officer, these. Are these cases on the rise or declining?

Violet: The rampant cases here are defilement, we have rape, and incest. Mostly. The daughters are left with their fathers. The father will raise the child, and when the child is about 16, 15 years, the daughter is left with her father, Maybe the mother is not there, she might be dead or they separated. Then the child depends on the father for everything. She gets to an age where the father views the child, as his wife. That's why, you find that sometimes the child has been defiled by her own father. Sometimes you find a situation, where the mother divorced and found another husband. Who will take her and her children in. So she will be living with the children's step-father. In some families you find that the father, when the mother is out working, While she is working, the step-father defiles the child. Community Community

Leader 1: I think I still have a difficult time accepting some of the explanations. Because, I don't think there's a way I can look at my daughter, and one day think of her as my wife.

Violet: These are cases that are in court. Wow. Where the courts say that they turn to DNA to confirm, if it is a biological father. And the test comes out positive. I am from the Mijikenda Community-Rabai. Specifically from Kilifi. So I am home. If we go back to our books on GBV, and to the education we receive especially from NGOs. You will see that power comes first. When it is issues of GBV, SGBV and other violence that happens within the community. You will find that someone wants power so that they can control someone else. That is why we find that, many of the men rape their daughters, mainly because they looked for power, to be a wizard and so and so. Here we buy witchcraft. Those are some of the rules men have to follow to get their witchcraft powers. The second reason is, Most men... most of the cases I get while at the office, since we are referred from the courts, if you look back at the past one or two months, most cases are that of a step-father defiling a step-child. Okay? Yes, there are cases of the biological father. But mostly you find that it is the step-child and the step-parent. If you investigate further, we do social inquiries. So we go to where the courts can't reach. Or where a Children's Officer needs help. You can find that the woman was impregnated. But later got married to this man. So, she brought a child into the home, but that's not the father. So you find that they raise the child, as she earlier stated. But it gets to a certain age where the father-daughter relationship, is non existent. He does not think of her as his daughter. Because in the back of his mind, he knows that she is not his daughter. I hope you understand me. So when she goes through adolescence, and her body changes, when she is around 9 years old, nowadays puberty comes in very early. You find that man starts to develop... If he has defiled the child, it is not something that started today. In most cases, he starts by grooming the child. There's something we call grooming. For those who have been educated on this. For those who do not understand what I mean, it is the practice of preparing or training a child for a particular activity that you want. For them to act how you want. So they can trust you. Once they trust you, it will be easier for you to do whatever you want. Without her knowing that it is wrong. So the chances of the cases being reported, are not that high. So you will find that the father or the step-parent, who wants to defile the child, grooms the child, keeps them close. Even the neighbors who defile our children, they start by grooming these children. They bring them close. They buy them sweets. They invite them indoors to clean their dishes. Come and watch TV. There are children who are defiled because of watching TV shows or something. Long before he defiles her, he has groomed her enough. Number two, he has defiled her so many times, before the child reports it, when the child is tested, there are no signs of any injuries. True or false? In most cases, the report says that, while conducting social inquires and you check the court files, The medical report says that this child who is nine years old or six years old, has no injuries. But they have been defiled. So her vaginal canal is open. And she has no injuries. Number two, that child, maybe she got a little swelling since she's still very young. But for it to show as defilement, it doesn't show, since the child says she has been defiled for a year. It started by inappropriate touch and progresses to defilement. Those are some of the reasons that make me think that, most men that are related to us, use to defile our children. Especially within the Mijikenda. Community

Leader 2: If we look at the statistics from Kwale, on issues pertaining SGBV, if we look at the KDHS report, it shows that 34% of the people are GBV victims, but if we focus at SGBV case, it shows that it affects 13% of the population. In Kwale, if we focus on SGBV, we are mostly talking about defilement. We are talking about child marriage. And we are also talking about exploitation of girls in Kwale. And if we look at how it happens, it usually happens in a family where everyone is acquainted. It happens in a family that is well known in the community, a neighbor, and we are also focusing on child pregnancies. I want to call them child pregnancies. Because these are children who are under 18 years old.

Narrator: According to the 2022 Kenya Demographic and Health Survey, a staggering 34% of women aged 15 to 49 have experienced some form of violence. with 13% of those cases being of a sexual nature. Here, child marriage stands at a heartbreaking 41% Shanzu, a town along this coast is home to Kenya's very first sexual and gender-based violence court. A green testament to the pressing need for justice. in the face of such adversity, I ventured to Kwale, eager to uncover the truth. To see what is really happening on the ground. And let us not forget the sinister shadows cast by sex, tourism and human trafficking.

Philip Karanja: Do you think that the community has not put... How do you say value in Swahili? Value in girls? Because, as you explained, if I do not have cows or properties, but I have a daughter. Is it that we do not value the girl child. Because if there are any problems, the last option I have is that daughter. Instead of her being seen as gold, you understand? Why is it that way? Is it tradition or what? Why is it an option that a child can be used to do away with their poverty. Community

Member 1: There are many cultures in Kwale. There are the Digo, Duruma, Zaramo, Maasai, Maasai are not only in Kajiado, but there are others in Kwale. I will speak on the Maasai in Kwale. Let me give you the true picture. Last week but one, we went to the Maasai. In a dialogue like this one to discuss early marriages and pregnancies. In the group I was sat with, there were men who were sensitizing people to prevent such issues. But before we opened up, we were asked to discuss education, but not to talk about early marriages. See? So, when we talk about culture, we who are closer to the roads, we are aware. But our friends are holding on to it. So we need so many weapons, so we can fight this and reduce the cases. Talk about health and education. But in terms of early marriages, pregnancies, leave us alone.

Young Woman: Let us say that, I was raised in poverty. An impoverished life. I was raised by a single parent. Our mom died a long time ago and we were left with our father. And my father is disabled. He can't go to work or anywhere. The reason why I had to get married, was because of my brothers. Because they were both very young. And they both needed to eat. One was not going to school and one was going to school. So I had to look for work. And raise my brothers. Community

Member 2: As much as she said that sometimes the girls runaway and find husbands, can't you as a parent ask her to go back to school and study. Tenga

Ali Mwinyihaji: Okay. How are you?

Kambua Manundu: We are well. Tenga

Ali Mwinyihaji: My name is Tenga Ali Mwinyihaji. I am a CA with NAYA. Network for Adolescent and Youth of Africa I have had a cluster of girls, young mothers in Mawengi-Matuga. But in my opinion, a young girl is not attractive to me. But we can say that for some, where we use sayings to say that, one cannot hide their character. There are individuals who have such characters. But something else is that, there are contributing factors. Social media, because you might have a girl, Maybe you are watching the TV or news, and she is just playing on her phone. You might think that she might be playing games but she is talking to someone. And when she gets the chance and a few promises, she goes to see the person.

Narrator: Technology has enabled an increase in violation due to ease of accessibility. According to Disrupting Harm in Kenya, a joint research project conducted by the Global ECPAT Network, Interpol, and UNICEF, 67% of children aged 12 to 17 in Kenya are internet users. Of a nationally representative sample of internet using children. 7% had been offered money or gifts in return for sexual images, or videos of themselves. And 3% had been threatened or blackmailed online to engage in sexual activities.

Philip Karanja: How did you end up in a marriage while so young?

Young Woman: I did go to school. But since life was very hard, I saw that I couldn't manage and I dropped out. When I dropped out, I thought that, life would be simpler if I got married. Once I got married, I was very young and the man I got married to was not of my age group. The man was much older and I was very young. In my married life, I was really tested. I really regretted it. I regretted it because there was no one to guide me. And my parents were aware. I found life to be very challenging. I was very shocked by how life turned out. Such that when I seat and think of how far I have come, I can say God has blessed me.

Philip Karanja: Okay. What challenges did you face in marriage. For example?

Young Woman: Some of the challenges I faces in marriages were, violence, let me say violence. He was physically abusive. He mistreated me. He would beat me up. Sometimes I would sleep hungry. And I had no one to talk to. And I had to endure. And if I said I was going back home, I would be told that I brought it upon myself. So I had to solve it alone. Because I brought that upon myself. My parents did not have money. But they really wanted me to get an education. But I did not have the will to study. I knew that getting married was what was good for life.

Philip Karanja: Is it that traditionally, there were no such cases or is it that they were not recorded. Because there is the argument on modernity. Internet, phones, making the cases rampant. Is it that we've started keeping records. That's why we know how much defilement cases are prevalent. Or they were also present in the past, but we did not record?

Violet: This debate has been there. It has been there. And you are right. For example, if you take a look at DHS, the Demographic and Health Survey of Kenya, for a a previous time there was not that element of GBV in terms of when they came into your household, They will ask for example, how many cows do you have? Do you have a boat? Such things. For a long time, they would not ask whether, there is a survivor in this household? Has anyone been defiled here? If they are talking to the wife, does your husband abuse you? If it is the man, have you ever been defiled? So there was a push to include that question. For FGM to also be included. For a long time we did not have the statistics. And in these defilement cases, here they call them love relations, but I do not see any love there. They are seen as private. It was seen as an issue that happens at home and should be dealt with privately at home. And most times, the father represents the law at home. And if the father is manner-less, you find that there is no law at home. So, when you say that it has been there, I say that the cases have been there. It's just that at the time, no attention was paid. And when we speak on modernity, I can say that modern technology has introduced new forms of abuse. That might not have been there in the beginning. But are making defilement easier. As it was earlier stated that, with phones, there is access to the internet. The internet has made it easier to commit these crimes. That is why I say that, though we have many laws, our laws do not address that abuse that happens through the internet.

Young Woman: Most of the parents whose children have been impregnated making the cases rampant, are also children. So there are children carrying children. And when these children find life to be too difficult because of poverty, someone leaves for Saudi Arabia. She leaves the grandmother and child. The grandmother depends on the girl for everything. And maybe the grandmother is very old. Since the grandmother is taking care of the child, the girl gets a chance to go and have some fun. If we look at the defilement cases here, there's an evil that has come to Kwale. In the past, defilement in Kwale was extremely rare. But the challenge with the cases we are having, the perpetrators are family, neighbours, or someone who is close. Which makes it shaming to go and report it. So the woman keeps the case to herself out of fear. If I report my husband to have raped my child, or to have defiled the child, where will I go? Because of poverty. So the woman keeps to herself and feels that if she reports this, it will be challenging and she will be chased out with nowhere to live. And if we take a look at SGBV cases in Kwale, we say that it is poverty. But let me state that children here do not have proper parenting. For example, a child's mother goes to Saudi Arabia and leaved the child with the grandmother. And when with the grandmother, the child is told that they won't eat, because the mother did not send any money. You will eat once your mother sends the money. Maybe the mother is suffering in Saudi Arabia. It has been two months since she sent any money. This child needs money for food, the girl needs pads, she needs money for maintenance to feel like a girl. So, if she goes home and lacks, she goes out to find someone who will provide for her. And when she looks for a provider, she does not find someone to guide them and warn them against the wrong. She feels that she is right. So she find where she gets provision to be safe. And instead of being safer, she gets pregnant while still a child. So there are so many challenges, that we as the Mijikenda or residents of Kwale, that face us. Looking at other areas, the law and the courts, maybe you have presented a case, the case goes well, the witnesses are present. Or the child is present. And the case takes such a long time. Since the perpetrator is out here, other people copy paste. Why did this person rape another person's child, and he was not imprisoned and is out here living. So if I do the same, nothing will happen to me. So there are challenges that cut across everywhere.

Kambua Manundu: A lot of defilement cases are not from strangers. It happens with strangers. But , a lot of them are just... Are usually trusted people. A child will trust somebody who... You know, they see this person, it's uncle so and so, you know, it's my dad who told me. So it's very easy to get them. As she's saying to that position of being very vulnerable and being broken. My follow up question then is, if this child has been defiled so much that they do not have any injuries, How do you help that child?

Philip Karanja: Maybe Jacqueline as well, in such a case, because I know for defilement cases, a lot of cases you need evidence. But in this case, how do you go about such cases, for example?

Kambua Manundu: Okay, Violet.

Young Woman: In a group like Sauti ya Wanawake, If the defilement has happened, we will go to hospital and the doctor will write his report. Nowadays we are very insistent that the doctor observes the physical, emotional not just the tear. When it's just the tear, you will miss a lot of things. And there are doctors here who can confirm. You examine the child holistically. And that does not stop the case from going to court. If the child is talking, that can be very helpful. Because they can speak for themselves as a witness. And she will say what happened. And if they have their mother or a woman to speak on their behalf, they will act as witnesses in the case. So, if a case does not have physical tear, it does not mean that the child cannot get justice. She will go through the whole referral pathway. She will get help, and the case will go to court. And the Investigating Officer like the Madam here, will write her report and that of the hospital, and if probation will be included in social inquiry. They will write their report, and the ODPP will confirm that case. If it will hold any water. That is why we are saying that even if the child showered after rape, We have to follow the due process. So that the survivor can get justice, and gets the needed services to heal and move on. And research shows that, children who are raped have high chances that they mar rape others, or they will get raped again. High chances are that once you are raped, you can be raped twice or more times. Many times, children have given birth at 12 years, 13 years. A year does not go by if she has not been impregnated again. If no intervention is made in terms of counseling, and to talk to schools. Because if everyone is going to school, plus the children department. We talk to the schools to allow the children back to school. And the mother is also asked to let the child to go to school. So it's a holistic approach. Because if you leave them at home, six months will not go by, before they are pregnant again.

Philip Karanja: Violet, since you still have the microphone, I think that we have heard from everyone that number one, This is a problem that is in Kwale. Number two, we have heard a lot of reasons. Some have said that there is poverty, There is culture. Now we have heard about witchcraft. So all these contribute to the problem of defilement and SGBV cases here in Kwale. So I'll go round, I want to see, are there solutions we can get to beat this vice in Kwale. My question to you is, if today, money was not a problem, you have no problem with money, the law is on your side, politicians are on your side, everything is on your side. How can we end SGBV cases in

Violet: The first thing, Education and awareness. That is it, the community and the social norms. Changing thoughts and the perception of the community towards Gender Based Violence. If we are able to change their thinking, and they can see the importance the value of a child, especially the girl child, they will be able to change their thinking. And changing someone's thinking is not easy. It takes a long time. We stay with them and talk to them. And letting them know of their rights. Because these reports are coming up because, people are aware that this is gender based violence. Sensitization is something we cannot stop. because GBV also evolves with time. Right? Children are now being abused through technology. They get lured. Like in Mombasa, girls are lured all the way from Busia and they are tricked. They land in Mombasa and they do not know where to start. And they become sexually exploited because of that system we have. Understanding the law and knowing what needs to be done, Sensitization and education. Because we are also doing this in schools. That's the proper touch, there is a song that is sung in school, so that a child can know, in cased I am touched like this, what can I do. Sensitizing everyone, from the children, to the older generation, even churches, that has to continue. That is one thing. The second thing. It is a survivor centered approach. So that the person who has been defiled, does she get a chance to heal, a chance to get justice, a chance to go on with their usual lives. So that they do not become vulnerable again and end up being defiled.

Philip Karanja: Thank you so much. I think I have said that there is the law in Kwale. Violet has said something important. She has aired some of my thoughts and I will echo them. The second thing is that we need sensitization in the community. We need to know that a girl child has great value in the family. I am not saying that the boy child does not have value but the girl child, is also very important in their families. Community

Member 1: For me and where I stand, we can only beat this vice by working together. That is the only thing. And parents should not get tired of showing up, if they have reported a case, they should never tire. Because we are here to work with them. Because in these defilement cases, it gets to a point where the mom sides with the father. The child remains alone in the search for justice. And they left alone. So, that's why I am saying unity is very important. Let us cooperate. And this will surely come to a stop.

Philip Karanja: Thank you so much. John Paul, today we ant to hear from you on different areas. I know you are you're a partner with Equality Now, But I think that in this sitting, maybe you're the only one who's been to the courts. So I will ask you from two sides. From a legislative perspective, from the courts perspective, how can we end this scourge? And also you now working as a partner, Are there steps we can take as a community? So as to do away with this issue.

John Paul: Yes, there are steps we can take. And as our organization, we'll continue supporting community work. Especially done by Sauti ya Wanawake and other organizations working in Kwale County. To ensure that those who are violated access justice. So there's that bit. But also to ensure that there is prevention aspect that, basically making sure that there are no new cases coming up. That those girls who have not been violated are not violated. So a number of programs, like now, the school outreach programs, will continue supporting that... Will continue also supporting capacity building like what we've been doing with the police, with the ODPP, with the judiciary, just for them to also get a platform to interact with the community. Like now this forum. They hear the voices because again, even from the contribution, like what our brother Katiba was saying, It is not him, it is the community. How do we handle those? Because a crime is only committed when you've done the act. But when you're thinking those negative thoughts in your head, how do we help those people? As Violet says, to change their mentality, to change their thinking, so that they're able to respect the vulnerable. And they do not exercise their power in an illegal way. Because basically it is a power issue. From a legal perspective as a lawyer and as an advocate, what I will say is that recently Kwale County, we worked together with the Court Users Committee, a committee that brings together all people that use the court and also who serve at the court. For them to be able to promote access to justice. So because we launched it this year, I think around August to July, it is a new document that spells out all responsibilities. And the good thing about it is that it also gives the referral pathway. So there are numbers in that booklet that people can call. So in this session, what we will be doing is distributing those to the community so that whoever feels that they're threatened or they know someone who is in distress, then they are able to call the relevant a authorities. So for us, I think we are positive that we will end SGBV, in Kwale County. Because of the progress we've been seeing even with the DHS in 2014 If you look at 2014 and 2022 there is some bit of decrease. We've not reached zero where we want to, but we feel that the efforts that are being put into the fight, are yielding fruits. For example, we've heard of now cases are going through, survivors are being supported, but we think we are not yet there, even with empowerment, the issues of economic empowerment, just to ensure that those girls who have been violated, how do they regain their well being and their self-esteem and they are able to move away from that exploitative or violent environment. So those are things that we are also working on with the county government. Both in terms of the policies, the laws, but also actual implementation. But so far I will say that we are on the right track to fight this, thank you.

Philip Karanja: If you go to that village, it is dangerous. If you do this, it is dangerous. So we should look for safe places. And to get involved in other areas. Yes there is the issue of prevention, we as law enforces have to be very strict. We have an organization known as the Children advisory committee. In every area. The challenge is that we do not get to the grassroots. But we are asking that in unity, that these organizations are available even in the locational level. That is how issues in all locations will get to be addressed legally. Community

Member 2: If we look at the Gender Based Violence in

Violet: As the Gender Sector Working Group, and our partners, we have done a great job. If we look at it, many partners have volunteered to help with this issue. But getting to the remote areas, many people in the remote areas do not have information. So I will advocate for dialogues in the community, the grassroots, intensively.

Philip Karanja: Kambua, we have gone round. This thing is everywhere. SGBV is a problem across the country. For you and I

Kambua Manundu: Yeah. How do you think we can step in and stop this? And I don't know, I am just seated here and I'm thinking There's a way the national government, for example, handled HIV & AIDS. Yes. They made it a national disaster. When Covid came, there's a way the national government- Stepped in strong. And what we have seen is, SGBV is a problem across the country. Everywhere. So how do we make the national government take this up seriously? The same way they've taken up Covid and HIV & AIDS. I think we are, we are actually doing, what we should be doing. is having the conversations. Shedding light on that. On the issues. You know. I was looking at these mats over here and I was thinking the way they've been laid out like that, is the way we should have those open conversations. Without hiding. And I appreciate the people from Kwale, thank you so much. For coming and for speaking openly. I have to applaud you. Thank you yo Sauti ya Mama, Male Champions. all of you who are working together. Because, If we hide an issue, it grows. But if we address it openly, Even if it is embarrassing for us as a community, we start to get the solutions. And the national government is able to see that there is a problem in Kwale. There is a problem in Busia. There is a problem in Kajiado. There is a problem in Makueni. So we have to keep having the conversations. We have to keep talking and making sure we are heard. I think Jackline said that we should not tire. Please do not get tired. Don't say that you have done this job for so long. Keep going. Because I also have hope, as John Paul has said, that this issue of SGBV in Kwale and in other parts of the country, will come to zero. Where it's so shocking if we hear it happened. And the more that everyone plays their role, The police and doctors do their job, the magistrates do their jobs, the president does his job. When everyone does their job, then we will realize that the perpetrators know that you cannot get away with certain things. I think part of the problem is knowing, this will not go far. Or that it will take so long before it goes anywhere. But if we all play our part, people are going to be very afraid of touching our children. You know? And realizing that we as parents, me and you are parents. knowing that I am my child's protector. You are your child's protector. If anyone dares to touch my child, no matter who it is, my responsibility is to protect my child. And protecting my child could mean reporting my relative. It could mean being isolated from my community. But I have to play my part as a protector of that child. So, people from Kwale, once again, thank you. My father was born in Kwale. My father is from Chingwende. So I am home, and I love you. I feel so bad when I hear certain stories from Kwale. We have to say; No, this cannot continue. If it means we have to go to the grassroots and talk, that is exactly what we will do, right? Alright. Thank you so much.

Philip Karanja: For me, this has been a journey like I said from the beginning, I am a father to a small girl, and just knowing that my girl is not safe in the world that we are living in, was horrific for me. So I'm on a journey. Also, I think as the ladies, you have been making noise. So I think it's time now as men, we start raising our voice as well. And championing for SGBV to end.

Narrator: As I walked along these shores, I felt an urgent call for change. A desperate need for rapid economic growth and mass civic education. It raises a poignant question, Why does our government not see the urgency in addressing these issues? Here at the Kenyan coast, the beauty of the ocean starkly contrasts with the challenges faced by its people. It is a call to action, a plea for awareness and compassion.

Crowd: ♪Native Song♪
