"Episode 1: A Girl Dad on a Mission|Is my daughter really safe in this world?"
Stats: Views: 109,746; Likes: 2,884; Comments: 186.
Speaker: Philip Karanja

Philip Karanja: In the quiet moments of life, when we find ourselves confined by circumstance, our minds often wonder to the world beyond our walls. Recently, I broke my femur. Forcing me to stay home just as anti-government protests swept through Kenya. With nowhere to escape, I turned to the news. Only to be met with a chilling report. Over 70 bodies, discovered in a quarry. The majority, women. Now

News Reader: we begin with the unfolding events at a quarry in Mukuru-Pipeline area, South of Nairobi. Where the agonizing search for human remains, at the dirt and water filled crater, continues. They are all women. The lower parts. You find the

Interviewee 1: head and the upper body parts. The upper half and and the other half is their legs.

Interviewee 2: We feel terrible as women. Many were found there. Not a single man, only women were

Philip Karanja: found there. It was a moment that plunged me into a rabbit hole. The haunting realization of a world where the violence against women has become an unsettling norm.

News Reader: To a sad story now, Ugandan Olympic marathoner, Rebecca Chepregei has died, four days after she was doused in petrol, and set on fire by her estranged partner, in the latest attack on a female athlete in the country. The identity of the young woman who was brutally murdered in Roysambu-Nairobi, has now been revealed. Middle aged man on suspicions of murdering a 24-year-old woman, Starlet Wahu, in an Airbnb flat located in South B area, here in Nairobi. Wahu's lifeless body was discovered in the apartment, with blood spatter all over the room.

Philip Karanja: Last year, we gathered for an end to femicide march. United by a single cry. Stop killing

News Reader: us! 152 reported femicides in 2023. That's the highest number in years. Another group estimates that 500 women were murdered between 2017 and 2024. Abuse is also rife. A 2022 survey found one in three women had experienced physical violence.

Philip Karanja: Yet, as I delve deeper, my heart shattered anew. Over 51,000 women are killed every year by an intimate partner, or family member. That's about 140 women in a day. I quickly realised that Femicide is at the end of the long chain of SGBV. That has gone unchecked in our society for a long time. I have lived a sheltered life. Believing my daughter was safe. But those beliefs crumbled under the weight of harsh truths. Partnering with Equality Now, an organization committed to fighting gender based violence through legal means, I received a map, a guide to conversations that needed to be had. I set off on a journey to hear directly from survivors of sexual violence. To grasp the reality my daughter faces. Our first destination, Kajiado. This vast county spanning over 21,000 square kilometers. Is home to 1.1 million souls. It boarders Nairobi to the North. And it stretches down to Tanzania. A dawn of breath taking planes, valleys and volcanic hills. ♪native chant♪ I took along with me, my friend, Kambua Manundu. To have this crucial conversation, on the ground. So that we can know the truth about SGBV. Beneath this beauty, lies a stark reality, Female Genital Mutilation. and child marriage, remain pervasive threats to the young girls of this land. ♪native chant♪ How old were you at this point? Eight years. Eight years old. And you were taken to a different homestead.

Interviewee 3: No, I was seven. I was only seven years. We were

Philip Karanja: all living together when, a woman came and said

Interviewee 3: she wanted a girl to marry to her son. She wanted my older sister who is in school. Since she was at school, my mother said that she didn't have any other daughter to marry off. Because I was still young. She was told that I was not young. They would live with me until I was old enough.

Survivor 1: My name is Rosy Lantoi. I'm a Maasai raised in culture, whereby FGM and early marriages is a rite of passage. And I used to say, One day, I don't want this to happen to me. What I see being done to other girls. My father is a polygamous. He has four wives, my mom being the youngest wife. When I saw what happened to the others, I didn't want that. We went to the boarder. And I ran away. To cut the long story short, since I really hate that story, I found myself at Mathare Children's Home. I felt like my own blood, my own community betrayed me. Why should they force me to do something that I don't want? There is

Interviewee 3: nothing he can provide for us. I have to provide for everything. Yeah. so, after sometime, he saw that we were staying

Philip Karanja: at home

Survivor 1: for too long. So, his aim

Interviewee 4: is that, I undergo FGM, myself. And afterwards, of course, it

Philip Karanja: is

Interviewee 4: marriage. What exactly do we mean by circumsition? The process of cutting or removing the female genitalia. And there are three or four types. Depending on how the process is undertaken, Some cut the whole external genitalia, some cut a small portion. And others cut the sides, what is known as labias in English. The labia minora, the labia majora. But on the ground, what we see in our area that is Kajiado-Oloitokitok, The clitoris, in

Kambua Manundu: English, it is called clitorectomy. Clitorectomy. That is the most common practice in our area. The age at which girls undergo FGM has dropped. You hear that two-year-olds are undergoing FGM. Others are mutilated at birth. They use their nails to mutilate a girl when she is born. in Kenya. You know? And it is very true. And, you know, When we talk

Interviewee 5: about FGM, it seems like people think that it is not prevalent. It is either

Kambua Manundu: over or it has reduced. But the numbers are still very high. Right. You

Interviewee 5: find that there those undergoing the process when they are younger. But here at home, they usually start at eight years, nine years. And after

Interviewee 1: FGM, is when they are married off at an early age. Because that is the reason behind FGM. My grandfather told me that, when they were presenting the dowry, since he is marrying a woman who is here, since he doesn't want his wife to sleep with another man. that is why they introduced FGM. So she does not sleep around. But that is not the result. Because you find that many who have been mutilated, are married off at an early age. You find that the rate of teenage pregnancy is very high.

Philip Karanja: So you find that the selfish nature of the men has led us to these problems. Can you imagine, in this day and time, someone cutting off your genitalia, so that you can become marriagable? Or preventing you from allegedly becoming promiscuous? At nine? Ten years! There is a problem. Because, the culture

Interviewee 1: believes that, when the girl gives birth to

Interviewee 2: a child, without undergoing FGM, trouble will befall the homestead. (speaking in Maasai) This is what she says

Interviewee 3: when a girl gives birth before she is mutilated, In the Maasai tradition, she is cursing herself and her family. And not just in Kajiado. In places like Kiambu, it's on the rise right now. Wait. You said Kiambu? Kiambu, that's your home? Yes. Wait. Let me tell you. because people from Kiambu are choosing to go back to their old traditions. So you find that women like me, those who are already married, they're being taken through FGM. So it's become a nuisance in Kiambu. You are hearing it in Meru, it's high in Kisii. It's with us. It's an issue that's with us, that we have to keep talking about. Once you mutilate

Interviewee 1: a girl, you have completely changed her life. After FGM, it means that you have annouced that you are marrying off or that she is ready to

Kambua Manundu: bear a child. The incident that pained me the most is, when we lost a young girl after she underwent FGM, and after undergoing FGM while pregnant, a teen pregnancy, she passed away. You heard us being told about the girl who was giving birth, she got the cut, and others die during child birth because, the passage way, the child cannot go through. Yeah. So the distress, either the mother or the child, we put their lives at risk. Phil, if you think about it, your daughter is four? Four. So imagine, maybe in another four years, she's been through FGM, and she is now ready for marriage. You can't wrap your head around that. She's a child, you know? And so we have to continue this conversation because, even a 15-year-old girl, is still a child. They have not had the opportunity to study and understand the world. To choose how far they want to go on with their studies and work. They don't get those opportunities So, we parents, and citizens have to have this conversation because, if we stay silent and hide this, and acting like it's not there, the problem grows. If we allow ourselves to be distracted, then we, we won't win this war. Yeah. Even if there are other things happening, We have to pay attention also to things that really matter. Judy, are these numbers

Philip Karanja: true? Are these... I mean I have a set of statistics here. And is this true? It's happening

Kambua Manundu: even in Nairobi. Phil, it's worse than it looks. The numbers we are seeing are the numbers that have been detected. But you're hearing here, it is happening by force. Yes. Even when we are told that the prevalence has gone down, to 15% The truth is, young girls, especially those with teen pregnancies, We are told that-- and the women will tell us, Birth attendant say that they have all been mutilated. And so the numbers are 15% on paper. But when the doctors and birth attendants document it, the numbers are something else. When we talk about kids who have been married as children In Kenya, if I'm not wrong, the total number, we're talking about 4 million child brides. Yeah

Philip Karanja: I saw that, four point... Yeah, I

Kambua Manundu: saw that. And so what does that say about us? It shows that as a society, that is the path we have chosen. We say that this is the law, but we are still practicing what we are practicing. And it doesn't matter. Other laws on murder, or rape, It's right or it's wrong. You cannot say that in my culture, we kill. Yes the law forbids killing, but my culture sensitizes me. Teach me that killing is not right, so that I can follow the law. No. When you kill, the law remains the law. So, why are we stuck on this? Because the numbers are worse than we are saying. And the realities are what Kambua is saying. That people are dying during child birth. That people's reproductive health are ruined. That girls are being married. Let me shock you Phil. From here, we had talks. we sampled 10 girls. We talked to 10 girls, late last year. And of the 10, Nine had been rescued from child marriages. And all those girls were between 9 years old, and 12. and they had been rescued by Dorcas, 3 years ago. Meaning that they had been married off during Covid, since they were very young. Yeah. So we were wondering, when were they married? Because they were about 11, 12. Yeah. That means they were married when they were younger than 10. And they got married when... Since we are all grownups here, let's talk openly. It means that, once you get married, you take up marital duties. So, if you impregnate an 8 or 10 -year-old child, will they be able to give birth? Will they? One told us that she ran away because, she visited her sister, and she found that her 13-year-old sister, had already given birth. And she said that she didn't think she could manage. So this is our reality. As you said Phil, I It's... We want them... Yes, we are far. Yes we are in Kimana. But we are what, three hours, two hours from Nairobi? How can this be a reality? How can this be our life? An 8, 9, 10-year-old child, even if it is a tradition, how do you desire such a young girl to be your wife? What

Interviewee 1: I know about it, is that, in Maasai, Yeah. A boy child cannot choose his wife. Okay. That is a responsibility of the father. He can move the cows right now. And take the cows to Tanzania. When he goes back home, he finds that a wife has been brought home. Your wife is in the house. You cannot argue with your parent. That you do not want her because she is young. Because, in our culture, You cannot go against your father. If the father decides, then it is done. So this is a business to the man? Because- It is a business between the father of the girl and the man's father. So for them- To make their own friendship to be more strong. But Phil, there are old men that marry very young girls. They are more than the young men. Yes. So, there are old men here, we have been able to rescue children, who had been married off to men who are 50 years 40 years. There was one who was 56 years. He had married a girl

Philip Karanja: who was 13 years old. UNICEF estimates that 640 million girls and women today were married 20% of whom reside in Sub-Saharan Africa. In Eastern and Southern Africa, the prevalence of child marriage reaches a staggering 32% compared to a global rate of 19%. In Kenya alone, 4.2 million girls are married before their time, a national prevalence of 23%. So what are some of the challenges you are having in terms of, curbing this thing here locally?

Interviewee 1: This community really needs sensitization on this issue. You want to tell me that in this community, there are people who don't know that mutilating young girls is a crime? There are people who do not know that child marriages are a crime? They are still stuck. There are those who are completely stuck. That's why you hear

Philip Karanja: that it happens in hiding. Judy, let me throw this back at you. Do we have enough policies? Is enough being done by our government?

Judy: I agree, we've got a fairly good legal framework. For example, we've got the prohibition of Female Genital Mutilation Act. So there are laws. We've got a children's act, , one that was, was passed recently, One that was passed recently, amending the previous Children's Act. A year ago. That is comprehensive. So, we have the laws. But the laws and out practices do not match. I just want to know, what pulls them to traditions that they go against the law? We have the laws. We have the policies. But implementation does not happen. Why don't the doctors document ? Yet they are at the forefront of presenting evidence? It forces children to stand up against their fathers. That's why the cases fail, because the children can't do it. They cannot speak against their fathers in court. So, Let us be honest with ourselves, if we want to move forward, let us do so, if we don't, say it. When we are honest that we want to move forward, that's when we can be told why we can't. But when the law says one thing and we say something else, Then there is a divide. And the divide is in implementation. And the split is also working secretly. When it comes to rape, We have a very clearly laid out process in the health system, that when you treat, you should refer them to the police, there are forms such as the P3 and the PRC form that are filled. that help us with pursuing prosecution. When it comes to FGM, there is a certain gap, which is, I will treat the patient, and there's no provision for me that I have to notify the legal, the police that we have a FGM issue. And that's the practice that has been in the police. We notify the defilement cases, but for the FGM Even when we send the police, nothing is really followed up. We did a baseline... Baseline study before we started the project we're implementing. And there were certain years where they said zero FGM case reported at the police station. One case in court. And then maybe two three cases reported to the children's officer. But then when you look at the pregnancy cases reported in the county, they are in thousands. Because when you are doing OB/GYN, right word. The gynecologists, when they see pregnant patients, they will record, whether they've gone through FGM or not. And you'd find most of the teenage, pregnancies, most of them had gone through FGM. but then look at the cases that have been reported, zero. The cases in court, one. So there's no obligation. So that's how we came to know that... We came to find out that, FGM cases are still being practiced and it's at a very high rate. It's just not reported. The fact that it's... You have zero reported cases, doesn't mean it's not happening. It's happening. But if the medics had an obligation to report, then we would actually see the reality of the cases that are happening. Not only aren't medics reporting then now practicing medicalization. So they're the ones who are now being called to homes together with nurses and other clinicians to cut the girls. They are the ones coming to the homes. To do the mutilation. Now we are leaving the traditional mutilators, we are going now to the professional mutilators. And I think I heard a doctor say this the other day. that there's nowhere in their medical practice where any doctor has been trained to perform FGM. You know?, So really what we're saying is what they're doing is not only illegal, they're also quacks in the true effect. Because they have never... You've not been trained to cut a woman's... body part, whatever. VA vagina or whatever, clitoris or whatever. You've not been trained to do that. But then it's being now used to, sanitize the process. So, first, even though they're not required to report by law, they're required to document. so that they do have a form that allows them to say whether someone has been cut or not. But we don't have the data. We don't have the data. We haven't heard from the medical board speaking in the strongest terms possible against medicalization. because it's not priority. And then the worst thing is actually the comparison, between circumcision and mutilation. Because with all due respect to the elders, circumcision is cutting of the skin. FGM is cutting of the entire gland. The entire female genitalia is cut off. Carol will correct me here, but we did a litigation and the doctors who came, to present in the case actually did the analysis and found that the number of nerves, that are actually cut through in this particular process are even are even more by far. So that you're cutting off the entire gland for no medical purpose whatsoever. With the intention being for you to control the sexuality of this person.

Kambua Manundu: And we have been told by the elder that, instead of controlling the sexuality, you have just made an announcement, that this girl should get married, or this girl should get pregnant. So, doctors, help us. I'm struggling because, anyone in the medical community, I understand that, maybe they are from the Maa community. Maasai. And they have grown in this culture. The fact that they have been trained, became a nurse, then a doctor

Interviewee 1: then

Kambua Manundu: already, they know that this practice is harmful to women. But you're telling me that there

Interviewee 1: are

Kambua Manundu: people in the medical fraternity, who are still choosing to follow the culture, and are... They

Interviewee 1: feel it's better of for the culture to go on. Even with all that knowledge. Phil, that's why you hear that people who have gone to study abroad, and they bring their kind here for the holiday, You educated, like

Philip Karanja: this gentleman. He had educated children who have gone abroad. But they have held onto their traditions. During the holidays, they are brought here to the village. Or to Nairobi. It's happening in Nairobi. In some of the places, Eastleigh, South C, the the

Interviewee 1: rates are also quite

Interviewee 3: high. They are brought home, mutilated, get healed, once the schools open, you resume. So the holding onto a harmful practice. over the

Philip Karanja: knowledge. Though, the rates of female genital mutilation have seen some decline, In Narok, The prevalence stands at 51% while Kajiado hovers at 24%. Both figures are alarmingly above the national

Interviewee 3: average. Is there any hope that we will ever get done with the matter of mutilation? FGM and early childhood marriage? I think there is a possibility. Personally speaking, this thing will end in my family. It starts from the home. From the ground. Whatever that is in papers, those I can say they are cooked words because in the ground things are very different. And this happening, because we if I use we the community now, now we are hiding those people who are doing those issues. Yes. We know them. and we know the time they're taking, we know the date and every step they're taking. It's not the child, it is the parent. It is not the child who agrees to be mutilated. Even if you offer mentorship to these girls. Okay, you will talk to them. But the decision, later comes from the parent. Let's go to the parents. Let us call the older women. Let us offer them mentorship. So they can understand the importance of not mutilating the girls. Then we will talk to the men. It is not that they will not listen, they will listen. The only thing is that they don't have the information on the effects of mutilation. So even if laws exist, sensitization is the best, it is the best solution because Even if you imprison them for 20 years, Tomorrow, there will be a new case is reported. So sensitization, sensitization, sensitization. If you can be able to marry the two, the defilement... I'm speaking from the medics, point of view, if can be able to marry the two, the FGM, and the defilement because, all defilement or

Interviewee 4: rape cases we have an obligation to report them. We send them to the police. But the young girls coming in to give birth, I have no obligation. So, if we can do more sensitization for medics that, these young girls coming in to give birth, the young girls, these things need to be followed up. Because they are from the community They bring in the first child, then

Interviewee 5: her sister, and then it keeps... it's something that we need to work on and which can be fought. I am grateful you spoke on that. Because the problem is that it is hard for a woman to has been mutilated to give birth. I don't know if we should tell the government, so they can become more strict because, I don't know if the law is not strict, it should be more draconian. To be honest, if the law goes on like this, we will not succeed. Let's try and go into the villages. Because, as an individual, I might have

Community Member: dropped the practice. But others in the village who have not learned are suffering. To try and pass the message. So they can also learn, just as these ones did. I thank God through empowerment and education from the scholarship of ABC, I graduated, I pursued Bachelor's of Arts in Development Studies, double major in Public

Philip Karanja: Relation. But I always feel so bad. That's why I try to fix myself in such programs to try and empower our girls and empower our parents to show them that Don't mutilate me. Let me study. That's how I'll change you. If you want me to help you. But what I want to say

Kambua Manundu: is that change is possible when we come together and work together. Nothing is that

Interviewee 1: big. (speaking in Maasai) This woman is called Sarah. and

Kambua Manundu: her opinion is that, One, is that the community should know that

Interviewee 1: mutilating girls is wrong. So they can stop and protect those who are to be

Kambua Manundu: mutilated. The second thing, because they have found the means, to reach whoever they should report to, when they hear whatever is happening. Those who are involved should be ready to receive them in a respectful manner. (speaking in Maasai) Our grandmother says that she was mutilating girls. And now she agrees with you, that girls should not be mutilated again. And she will be reporting anyone who wants to mutilate girls. I believe the day will and can come. But we all need to be angry enough about the issue. That FGM is not a community issue. And early child marriage. The problem sometimes is that we imagine, This is a problem facing the Maasai, a problem facing the Kikuyu, But it is a problem facing all of us. And everyone has a role to play. When, when we started Phil, you said that you were shocked, you were surprised. Now you have heard. So now you have no excuse and you have a role to play. Absolutely. Every one of us has a role to play. Educating other people. Because now we know. I am grateful to the woman who said that she was a cutter. But now she knows better. She stopped doing that. She did not know, now she knows and she stopped. And if we continue with the same, women admitting that they were mutilated, but my daughter will not be mutilated. That's already a step that we are moving ahead. Sometimes the problem is when a community, let's say me as a mother, I say, I went through this, so my daughter needs to go through it. But if I say there's nothing... I did not benefit in any way through getting the cut or being married early. then I stop it for my daughter. We keep drawing the line. I believe a day will come when this will be a thing of the past. But we all have to play our role. The doctors have to play their role in reporting and recording. The police have to play their role. The communities have to play their role. So our role is to is to report. When you hear, when you know, when you suspect that something is happening. Notify the people in the community who can take action. And I think the other thing is being aware that, you know, even as she was sharing her story, that the early marriage or FGM is not just a physical issue. The trauma that follows you, even as a 50-year-old woman, 60-year-old woman, you are mentally... you are traumatized for life. And how it affects you and your potential. And I think as I finish, , on the issue of FGM and the issue of child marriage, I also think that the, the language we use is very important. And I like that we at some point corrected that it's not female circumcision. It's actually a violation of human rights. So if we talk about it as bad as it is, because it is a bad practice. People need to understand how horrible the practice is. People need to understand that it is not child marriage. If this was, let's say in the US it would be called pedophilia. an adult and a child is a pedophile. But I think our language has really pacified a lot of things. If we could just call them what they are, that it is wrong, and act from there. And I think even with, with the lawyers in the room, Because sometimes I think I've read stories of, you know, when a cutter has been arrested or, or you know, someone who took a child for FGM has been arrested, then maybe the bail money is 200,000. You raise it so quickly and you build out and you continue. I wonder if the laws can be a little harsher and maybe, I'm glad Judy can respond to that as we finish. I wonder if the laws can be harsher So that it's, there's no easy way out. 'Cause I think that's the other thing. There's an easy way out sometimes. But I actually believe, I think we... The progress has been small, but it has been made. We are making it.

So Judy: we continue to have the conversations and we continue to play our individual roles. So for our partners like Hope Beyond Foundation, we do support them by offering technical support. so that they're able to understand the laws relating to FGM and child marriage So that they can be able to engage the

Philip Karanja: county government. Dorcas, I think, Of all of us who are seated here, I do not thing there is anyone who has seen the horrors you have witnessed. And first of all, mentally, how do you deal with what you see every day? And finally, is there way out? Can we put an end to FGM, and early childhood

Dorcas: marriage? From where you stand. What I have been through, It is like a torture. When you look at the girls coming in, a girl who has been mutilated, sometimes they have been defiled. She has been completely ruined. And this is an 11-year-old girl. She is 12. In this community we have lost many in hospital. Because of the crisis of FGM. And it is not an easy job. It is a very difficult job. We have a lot of problems. To date you will find that the stigma is very high. For those who are here talking with us, once we are out there, there's the stigma from working with us. Here in Maasai land, women have no voice. Even the issue of FGM is, to benefit the man. Not to benefit the woman. And it is you women are responsible. We have a voice and the power to stop that girl from being mutilated. Because these children have a voice. And these girls do not want it. But since us as women, we are afraid our husbands beating us up. Or you are afraid of being cursed. There is no such thing. So, if we work together, if the woman says no, it is possible. Nothing is impossible. What solution can we give to the women so they can leave that business, because it is a business. So she can leave. Women empowerment is number one. Then education. I will speak to the government of Kenya. They say that education is free. When you for to primary or secondary school, you find that the community has little resources. When a child goes to school and they are sent back home, and she comes back home as a 11 or 12-year-old, She has been sent back home. And she stays in such an environment. You find the Morans there. The father has no wealth, what happens? She will be mutilated and married off. If the government can cater to education, If it is free, let it be free. If I ran a center, a huge challenge we face is education. Now I have a primary school. Most of the children there do not pay for anything. When this child goes home, she will be mutilated and married off. Because their parents could not educate her. Since education is free, let it be free. No Public Secondary School costs below KES 20,000. Per year, it costs up to KES 50,000. Those are some of the many challenges we face as a community. And as a center. I am speaking on behalf of all rescue centers. The government does not help with many of the rescue centers. They are not helping with anything. These children come and say thank you. They give you a certificate saying thank you. That is over. You find that the County Government has set aside bursary funds. You find that a child receives 5,000 in bursaries each year. So it is all around. And all stakeholders, from doctors, to the community, county government, government, should really come in and help. Because the cheif is a known member of this community. And you find many children running to the chief. They don't take any measures. There are a lot of kangaroo courts happening. We are talking about justice. And the responsibility falls on all of us. And all departments. If you know that there is a chief in that location, especially where the chiefs are in the same location, that is a huge contributing factor. You find that the chief is from this household. And a case involves someone from the same homestead. So, do you expect him to forward any cases? It is hard. He cannot arrest his people. There are such issues, I do not know how the government will intervene. But that is the nature of those cases. And we would really love any help with women economy and education.

Thank Judy: you so much Dorcas. I think everyone has said some very profound things. Yes. And so I'll maybe try to say what hasn't been said. In just three quick points. First, I began by saying that we had enough laws, but maybe we don't. The medics I hear or I feel are the missing link. When, when girls are cut, they go for help to the doctors. When there's a problem with child birth, they'll go to the doctors. When there's defilement, they'll go to the doctors. And so doctors must be compelled to report. The way if they find a bullet, they'll be forced to take someone to the police station. Or defilement, they'll be forced to fill in the PRC form. In the same way they must be compelled. Doctors must also be compelled to speak loudly and clearly. And the medical board must pronounce itself right. As far as medicalization is concerned. So that's the first, the medics are the missing link. And they must answer the... Thy must rise to the occasion. The second one, I think both Kambua and Dorcas have spoken about justice, justice, justice. There must be cases. We must be seeing sufficient prosecution. and if doctors actually submit it, and persons are prosecuted and not relying on the girl to give evidence, but the evidence that has been collected, justice must be seen to be done. Justice must be done and must be spread wide and far for everyone to hear. And know that, this is being punished. And this is not a suggestion, but it's actually the law. And then thirdly, and finally, I think the community, and I'm not just talking this community, I think the community as a whole must have a conversation. Examine why have we held on to this practice so much? If we are even changing it, if you're saying it's culture, how come we're changing culture and practicing it on younger girls? You can't mean that this young girl is now an adult. Because you are now mutilating her when she is much younger. We are even shifting the culture. If we are hearing excellent examples from out elder here, then you can change. And so there needs to be an honest conversation within the community to understand why exactly, you must hold onto it. So that you can know how to unchain yourself from it And so that conversation must continue. Until everyone gets awareness. That people are either dying and bleeding out. People are... Children are dying and bleeding out. Women are having rubbish relationships because of that. Let's have that conversation. So that when we say we have stopped, we have actually stopped. Not us stopping in terms of speech, we are truly done with it. I think these three things will lead us to where we may want to go.

Philip Karanja: Thank you so much Judy. I think that's a really nice place to end it. That this conversation must continue. And just keeping to that, I personally want to continue with this conversation. I came to a sobering conclusion. FGM is in essence, a business. Once a girl is cut, she's marketed as ready for marriage. Fathers profit, the cutters profit, and this cycle of violence continues unchecked. I strongly urge our government to mandate medical professionals to treat FGM with the same urgency they ruled a gunshot wound.
