"If Men Followed These 28 Rules, Half Their Problems Would Vanish"
Stats: Views: 259,908; Likes: 4,764; Comments: 652.
Speaker: Dialogues With Jagero

Andrew Kibe: I saw somewhere written that Kibbe gets married again.

Dialogues With Jagero: Oh no.

Andrew Kibe: They're lying.

Dialogues With Jagero: It will never happen, Zagero. It will never happen.

Andrew Kibe: Never say never.

Dialogues With Jagero: Never happen. Unless, unless to say, the Prince of Brunei,

Dialogues With Jagero: his son is available, and he calls him, the Prince of Brunei. You know, that's the richest man in the world.

Dialogues With Jagero: Prince of Brunei, Kibbe, what's up? I tell him, what's up?

Dialogues With Jagero: We talk slowly, and then he says, I'm going to give you half my kingdom.

Unknown: Prince,

Dialogues With Jagero: as much as that is a good offer, I will need some time to think about it.

Dialogues With Jagero: I tell him, can I talk to you in 48 hours? And after 48 hours, I'm in a mountain.

Andrew Kibe: When I...

Dialogues With Jagero: You worship God, until he tells me, yes, you can marry. That's when I'll get married again. It's never going to happen.

Andrew Kibe: This book, a lot of people should be buying it. So that is why I don't want to, we don't want to give all. We want to, we want to, we want to give punches. Right? So

Dialogues With Jagero: you read some of it?

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. I read some of it.

Dialogues With Jagero: Very

Andrew Kibe: controversial.

Dialogues With Jagero: Like what?

Andrew Kibe: Man, you see, when, when I read that book, I was wondering, this motherfucker came from a woman.

Dialogues With Jagero: Bro, which part?

Andrew Kibe: The one that the exact, exactly that you, that you, that, that you told that guy over there. The first one that I saw. You don't share your problems to

Dialogues With Jagero: women. That's page number 69. Page

Andrew Kibe: number 69.

Dialogues With Jagero: Page number 69. Page number 69. Yes.

Andrew Kibe: But even your mother.

Dialogues With Jagero: Especially. Not even.

Dialogues With Jagero: Especially.

Dialogues With Jagero: You see, women don't see men the way men think women see men. Yeah. Women, they see power or puny. That's all they see. Power. Or puny. Or puny. So if she doesn't see power, she's seeing a puny guy. Mm. Yeah. So imagine if I went there and told her, oh, I'm in trouble. I haven't paid the rent. Oh, I don't know. Bro, she's looking at you like you're a puny. Because you'd rather be a thief

Unknown: than

Dialogues With Jagero: be a puny.

Dialogues With Jagero: Women fall in love with people who are in jail.

Dialogues With Jagero: Because those are not punies. Those are beasts.

Dialogues With Jagero: Women go to the committee. Every day, you know, you want to have a very strong beast that made a mistake. But I can see it. I get it.

Andrew Kibe: You have been fed bull. Shit. Be nice. Open up.

Dialogues With Jagero: Let

Andrew Kibe: her in. Be vulnerable.

Andrew Kibe: Fuck that.

Dialogues With Jagero: That's bullshit.

Andrew Kibe: What do you mean?

Dialogues With Jagero: I mean, isn't that what you're just talking about? Mm. Like this nonsense of men. Allowing women to, this weakness that men have of having to confide in women.

Dialogues With Jagero: It's a weakness that comes from when you are a boy. The way you used to run to your mother. It's nonsense. Why would you tell a woman your problems?

Dialogues With Jagero: Why?

Dialogues With Jagero: Why would you open up to a woman about anything? But she's gonna, she might give you some money. I mean, who are you? Are you Kabahany?

Dialogues With Jagero: Is that kuhu?

Andrew Kibe: She might give you some health. How? A bosom to lean

Dialogues With Jagero: on. How? A boob to lie on. Maybe. You see, if you want tits and ass, just ask for tits and ass. Don't go there with your problems. Oh, things are so bad. I'm about to get fired. Oh, she's looking at you. She's saying, this is a puny little shit. And she'll give you pity sex. Because there's still a small spark in you. What is pity sex? That sex that you're coming to get. Nonsense. Nonsense. She'll give you very nonsense, boring sex.

Dialogues With Jagero: And then, while she's preparing to give you sex, she's going to be texting now the man who excites her clit. And then now she's going to go there after this nonsense of yours.

Andrew Kibe: Okay,

Dialogues With Jagero: let me have a gum. Jing. I don't know. Let me have a day. I'm a cushy. Clear. I did. Let him do it.

Andrew Kibe: Roll up on the sofa. Cuddle a little bit.

Dialogues With Jagero: How? No. Let her. No, you've lost your frame. Every time you do that shit, you do women's things. Women hate you. You do. You do. You're not doing women's things. How do you suck? How do you suck? How do you suck? How does it look? And then she tells you, let's go eat somewhere. I tell her, let's go. And I suck on her.

Dialogues With Jagero: We need to go on holiday. Yes, let's go on holiday. And I suck on her. Because when you have no independent brain.

Dialogues With Jagero: Then she has to tell you, let me teach you, Jagger. Jagger, you're still learning. Yeah, I'm learning. You're still learning. Let me teach you. Even your wife.

Dialogues With Jagero: And if I, I can call Lisa.

Dialogues With Jagero: Hey, sweetheart.

Dialogues With Jagero: Hey, baby.

Dialogues With Jagero: I'm in Luwo. How do you say it in Luwo?

Dialogues With Jagero: Sucrose. Sucrose.

Dialogues With Jagero: Maybe we go to, you know, I hear there's a nice place in Naivasha. It would be nice for us to go and unwind.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: You need to listen here, woman. If you ever do that shit again, you're out.

Dialogues With Jagero: Okay?

Dialogues With Jagero: Nobody tells me what

Unknown: to do.

Dialogues With Jagero: Are we together, woman? She says, yes.

Dialogues With Jagero: If there are plans, those plans are going to be made by me and they will originate from me. Not from you. How is this? You're enjoying yourself, huh?

Andrew Kibe: I'm

Dialogues With Jagero: really enjoying myself. Broadcasting.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah? Yeah. Broadcasting is beautiful. You told me that I'm ugly and I do not belong to TV and I belong to radio. Yeah. That was true.

Dialogues With Jagero: And here we are.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: And here we are. And here we are. We're enjoying. But your face is for TV or radio.

Dialogues With Jagero: No, I never wanted to do TV.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: You never wanted to do TV? I

Dialogues With Jagero: wanted to be a star. I just didn't know what type of star I wanted to be.

Andrew Kibe: But

Dialogues With Jagero: I always wanted to be a star. I like the attention.

Andrew Kibe: I want to say congratulations for writing this book. All right. One of the beautiful things that you've written here is the foreword. This foreword captures Kife.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: I

Andrew Kibe: want to read a little bit about it and go slowly to Kionge Ayimamboya foreword because I think this is where the juice is.

Andrew Kibe: You said that the idea for this book came in 2021.

Andrew Kibe: And you're asking people, you remember I resigned from KCFM? Yeah.

Andrew Kibe: That moment, I didn't walk away because I had a master plan. I walked away because I couldn't breathe in there anymore. Too much female energy. Too much bullshit. I wrote that resignation letter, served my three months, and bounced.

Dialogues With Jagero: You know,

Dialogues With Jagero: I had to write that letter when I was very drunk.

Dialogues With Jagero: So I wrote that letter when I was... So in the morning, I had three chiles in the bed. Three chiles in the bed? Yeah. That is a foursome. No, that's just Andrew Kibbe. So,

Dialogues With Jagero: Andrew Kibbe was having... I mean, I don't see why you guys... Why is it a big deal, Jagero?

Andrew Kibe: No, but how do you have sex with four women? With three women?

Dialogues With Jagero: I mean, we're not greedy.

Dialogues With Jagero: We don't have to, you know... You see, you married men are the ones who have to do everything because you're going back to prison. As we're here in Liberty, Tunazaka, if you...

Dialogues With Jagero: Very nice. Very nice. You know, Chesa, Chesa, Tunazaka.

Dialogues With Jagero: And I really needed the balls to quit. Okay. So that day, I just...

Dialogues With Jagero: You know, a chile I used to have. When I'm with these chiles, I call her. I say, hey!

Dialogues With Jagero: It is time. She said, yes, it is time. I

Dialogues With Jagero: was drunk.

Dialogues With Jagero: Sent one line.

Dialogues With Jagero: I don't know what I said, but it was one line. I said, I'm serving till... So you have to serve three months. Okay. So I'm serving till this day. So I calculated. I said, till this day, I'll serve. Because I didn't have money to pay to not serve the three months. So you either pay three months or you serve out the three months.

Unknown: Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: So that's where you are.

Andrew Kibe: But you're also talking about something interesting. Too much female energy. Too much bullshit. What was that?

Dialogues With Jagero: Yeah, like now, with the nonsense of... Like, like Kiss had... I don't know whether it is something they were starting, but they had this thing of sexual harassment training.

Andrew Kibe: Okay.

Dialogues With Jagero: So every now and then, they bring somebody to talk to you about sexual harassment. Like, that is a real thing.

Dialogues With Jagero: So I went for one of those trainings.

Dialogues With Jagero: Why? We're grown -ups.

Dialogues With Jagero: Why are we being taught about sexual harassment? This is what we are to kaijini, to finish with your sexual harassment. I'm a grown -up. I know what the consequences are to everything.

Dialogues With Jagero: But you're not going to police my life. So the next time they had a sexual harassment training, I didn't go. But remember, that one is being organized by HR, woman,

Dialogues With Jagero: and legal, woman. So they keep us in that bullshit, nonsense meetings and just to dominate us. I'm trying to dominate maumbwa nyi.

Dialogues With Jagero: I didn't go.

Dialogues With Jagero: So they sent me a warning letter. I was like, you see? You see? You see?

Dialogues With Jagero: First, I didn't get a job. I got a straight question. I was in the studio. I was doing my job. I finished the studio and I left. I didn't accept anyone.

Dialogues With Jagero: Because I'm not there to make friends.

Dialogues With Jagero: I'm there to pick a bag.

Dialogues With Jagero: So what's this sexual harassment nonsense?

Dialogues With Jagero: Who are these people?

Dialogues With Jagero: I mean, bro, I ask anyone, walk into studio, walk out.

Dialogues With Jagero: They'll see me again tomorrow. There's no meeting. There's no promotion. I'm doing nothing. I don't want to do anything. I'm out. Then you tell me I have to go sit for a while. For one hour to be taught looking at a woman for longer than two seconds. The word for it is called leering.

Dialogues With Jagero: So you leered at somebody. And then these workplaces are so toxic for men right now that this person can report you anonymously.

Dialogues With Jagero: And you cannot ask who is it? You are guilty because you've been reported

Dialogues With Jagero: anonymously. So you're guilty. So you have to be taken through another sexual harassment training of something you don't even know what you did. Because it's anonymous.

Dialogues With Jagero: Is that so?

Dialogues With Jagero: Bruh. This is the workplace right now.

Dialogues With Jagero: Anonymous. So somebody can fuck around with your job just for nonsense. So I was like this does not

Dialogues With Jagero: they're not talking to me about these things. I am not part of this organization. I don't go for this organization bashes and anything. I'm just like a mercenary. Come in in the morning kill a few people get the fuck out.

Dialogues With Jagero: I don't care how much you guys buy bread for.

Dialogues With Jagero: You know what I mean?

Andrew Kibe: You like the wine?

Dialogues With Jagero: I love it. I feel like a Chilean.

Dialogues With Jagero: I'm getting marinated.

Andrew Kibe: So you check out.

Andrew Kibe: Then came Rogue Radio with Dizo. I believed people who do not know about this story of Dizo. Can you tell them a little bit more about

Dialogues With Jagero: it? Oh, Dizo, Dizo.

Dialogues With Jagero: Dizo is a very fine young man.

Dialogues With Jagero: We worked together for some time. We started Rogue Radio together. We, we, when we met we had similar energies. We were both in the same zone. So it was easy to work together. Yeah. So we started Rogue Radio. A studio somewhere in South Sea. Best work of my life. Very nice. Very nice. Beautiful studio. Dizo and I were the owners.

Unknown: Used

Dialogues With Jagero: to drink and shag and nini and that studio. Everything. Beautiful place.

Dialogues With Jagero: Even when I brought my kids I had to tell them hey, don't say that. Don't sit on that chair because

Dialogues With Jagero: you don't need to know but don't sit on that chair.

Dialogues With Jagero: It's a lady's chair. Yeah, yeah. It's okay. Sit on that chair. That one. That one. That one. That one.

Dialogues With Jagero: We had a nice seat there. Beautiful. Beautiful. And it was small. It was big. The house was tiny. Like the whole place was this carpet.

Dialogues With Jagero: And with a coach inside it. And then it was this low.

Dialogues With Jagero: So when you walk in you had to

Dialogues With Jagero: It's like we were mining every day.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: You bent over as you walk in.

Dialogues With Jagero: So we were bending over there. Beautiful. So we had a wonderful time with Dizo. We worked really well together and

Dialogues With Jagero: so when I went to Stato

Dialogues With Jagero: because I was going to Stato for a month.

Andrew Kibe: Okay.

Dialogues With Jagero: So when I decided to stay there because now even I was not making any money here because Rogridio hadn't started making money.

Andrew Kibe: Okay.

Dialogues With Jagero: So Pesa Sisi to run

Unknown: this

Dialogues With Jagero: thing. So when I got to Stato

Dialogues With Jagero: as soon as I got something to do there I said let me chill. Let me settle down first. Because Rogridio cost me a lot.

Andrew Kibe: I

Dialogues With Jagero: said let me just first build myself.

Andrew Kibe: What was the idea behind Rogridio?

Dialogues With Jagero: It's just this.

Dialogues With Jagero: In my head I was like man full time

Dialogues With Jagero: radio station on me. a lot of sense. Then you can feed people exactly who you are.

Dialogues With Jagero: So I was going to duplicate myself in the studio now. I can give you this type of shows and those types of shows. In my head it was going to work out very well.

Dialogues With Jagero: But I should have known better. This game is rigged. Is it? Yeah it is.

Dialogues With Jagero: How so? Because that industry doesn't make sense.

Dialogues With Jagero: You're opening your own independent radio station. Bro there's not that advertising doesn't exist.

Dialogues With Jagero: Especially now that everybody's moving to social media.

Dialogues With Jagero: Unless you're at Wanguo like Erika or Mondi. Did you watch that video of his?

Andrew Kibe: When you

Dialogues With Jagero: were swimming with the boys in some place?

Andrew Kibe: I saw a little bit of it.

Dialogues With Jagero: There was really not much to see though.

Dialogues With Jagero: Very little. Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: No I was just segwaying to that.

Dialogues With Jagero: Continue. Let's go back to the book.

Andrew Kibe: Yes. Yes. We are going back to the book. So this did not work. The money did not come. Reality is a motherfucker when you are chasing a dream. I couldn't keep up with rent for my house and where my kids stayed. So I made a hard choice. Gave up my own place. Started hoping from Airbnb to Airbnb.

Andrew Kibe: You know I was when I read that I was just wondering but this should be more expensive than having a house. But you

Dialogues With Jagero: don't have the whole amount to start.

Andrew Kibe: Oh I see. You're

Dialogues With Jagero: surviving day by day.

Dialogues With Jagero: Day by day by day. Because remember the first priority is the kids to eat.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: They

Dialogues With Jagero: have a place to sleep.

Dialogues With Jagero: So me I'm a Hamite. I can live anywhere. But I have some stability. So theirs was more important than mine.

Dialogues With Jagero: So since I'm trying to make money how am I going to make this money? So if today you get 5G first you think of your kids

Dialogues With Jagero: and then now from there you can go to the chiles blast them badly.

Dialogues With Jagero: Chiles

Andrew Kibe: in those Airbnbs that you're going to? There's no

Dialogues With Jagero: time when I've not had chiles.

Dialogues With Jagero: Even when I was in the mattress.

Dialogues With Jagero: Women are strong.

Dialogues With Jagero: Women are crazy.

Dialogues With Jagero: And I come and I insist I can get out. Please can I come? You remember it's a mattress.

Andrew Kibe: They

Dialogues With Jagero: just come. I love so. Oh, best young one. I like one. And I lay out. I take one of Kulala to watch it was sitting room.

Dialogues With Jagero: And I lay out. So I know that I'm a good dancing in and I don't know if I'm but your signals, but I

Dialogues With Jagero: might be more this thing here.

Dialogues With Jagero: What's up?

Andrew Kibe: You seem

Dialogues With Jagero: distracted. I

Andrew Kibe: know I want to go to. I was I was looking for my note. Now I've gotten them to work the fuck up. Yes. Keep a set the stage mentally are asleep, numbered by routine guilt and relationships. A

Andrew Kibe: lot of men right now are saying that they can't find chiles that it is too expensive for them. Did you hear that story of people that the clubs are full of girls these days and there are no men?

Andrew Kibe: And somebody was telling me that is because of a little it is telling men a little and keep telling men not to spend on women these days.

Dialogues With Jagero: No, that's not the thing. We'll never stop spending on women.

Andrew Kibe: We

Dialogues With Jagero: love these things. These are our things. So I was about Gary Ako. You'll never stop spending on your car. Love it.

Dialogues With Jagero: So there is no fear there. It's just that there are too many.

Andrew Kibe: The girls are too many.

Dialogues With Jagero: There are too many clubs, too many girls.

Dialogues With Jagero: Where are their fathers?

Dialogues With Jagero: Where are their fathers?

Dialogues With Jagero: Why are your women prostituting themselves in clubs?

Andrew Kibe: They're just going to make tomato have good time. Why?

Dialogues With Jagero: How? Five chicks on one table just having a good time. These are Tiggerists. You know what a Tiggerist is? No.

Dialogues With Jagero: Kutega. Yes.

Dialogues With Jagero: Tiggerist. It's a Tiggerist. These are whores just that nobody has approached them because there are not enough men for this. Again, remember, Jagero, successful men are very few. True. Very few. So these women are looking for those successful men. They have denied every other man along the way so she can get into that club hoping that the successful man, now the likes of you or Mike are here,

Dialogues With Jagero: that you will notice them and so they'll never get men. There are no men like that for them. Successful men don't need to go to the clubs.

Dialogues With Jagero: To sit in a club and drink. Are you stupid?

Dialogues With Jagero: Successful men don't need to do that. They know how to have a good time. They have hobbies.

Andrew Kibe: Golf.

Dialogues With Jagero: Yeah. Swimming. They can go golfing. They can go the other week you are taken by one Mwishimiwa to a shooting range. They have hobbies. They have things to do, not just to sit around and drink and hope for the best.

Dialogues With Jagero: Because that's what they do in the club. Sit there and hope for the best. It's like

Dialogues With Jagero: crocodiles at a

Dialogues With Jagero: river waiting for the wildebeest to cross. Just hoping that one chick is going to agree to his stories and then he might just go home with her. That's bullshit. It is very effeminate. Those are places for women.

Andrew Kibe: Clubs? Yes. But you used to go to clubs a lot, Kife? No, pool

Dialogues With Jagero: halls. Pool halls? Yes. Even today, I go to I'll be in a pool hall at night playing pool.

Dialogues With Jagero: Hobbies, my guy. Hobbies, my guy? Hobbies. So hobbies you get people who play snooker, squash,

Dialogues With Jagero: chess.

Dialogues With Jagero: You sit down, you drink, you work. Imagine how much time you waste just sitting and drinking. There's no value that is being added to your life.

Dialogues With Jagero: Bro, do you know how interesting it is to play pool?

Andrew Kibe: Have you played pool? Yeah, but I don't like it.

Dialogues With Jagero: Yeah, I mean, because of course you're not good and you didn't have the right person to teach you. But if you did, you'd enjoy it.

Andrew Kibe: I enjoy FIFA. Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: Like on PlayStation?

Andrew Kibe: Yeah.

Andrew Kibe: I love it.

Dialogues With Jagero: So you're serious? You play FIFA?

Andrew Kibe: Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: What time? You're a happily married guy.

Dialogues With Jagero: Or you have to go to BNB and PS2 to play. Where do you play it?

Andrew Kibe: I play it in the house.

Dialogues With Jagero: Whose house?

Andrew Kibe: My house.

Dialogues With Jagero: Your wife's. You're about to see your wife's. Your wife's house. Because that's

Andrew Kibe: where you're going. Yeah. So I play it right in the sitting room on my 83 inch TV, Samsung OLED.

Dialogues With Jagero: OLED?

Andrew Kibe: Yes.

Dialogues With Jagero: Your wife agrees to that? Yes. I mean, she gives you like once every month. She has no other wife. Oh.

Dialogues With Jagero: Jagero, you've been a good boy this month. You can play PS2 hours.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: No.

Dialogues With Jagero: And I want to record and say, this is my life every day. No, no, no. When did you last play?

Andrew Kibe: When we were in Nakuru for the first edition.

Dialogues With Jagero: You see, you had to be somewhere where she's not.

Andrew Kibe: No, no, no, no, no. You say, you asked, when did I last play it?

Dialogues With Jagero: Yes.

Andrew Kibe: I was in Nakuru over the weekend.

Dialogues With Jagero: So it'll be you bye -bye because that's the only place you can play? No,

Andrew Kibe: no, no, no, no.

Dialogues With Jagero: I

Andrew Kibe: always travel with the PlayStation. Here it is. Ah, this is the kind of thing you sell there or you come and sit in the court.

Dialogues With Jagero: I think it's the attribute to your wife.

Dialogues With Jagero: My wife.

Andrew Kibe: So I buy it everywhere I go. You have to play it.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah, I started playing it in 2014 to do it. I got married when I was having PS4. Now I have PS5.

Dialogues With Jagero: Do you watch porn on it?

Andrew Kibe: It has a browser? No, I don't think it has a browser.

Dialogues With Jagero: Oh, it doesn't have. I think it does. Yeah, it connects to the Internet, right?

Andrew Kibe: Yeah, but but why would I? Why would I watch porn on it? You

Dialogues With Jagero: guys don't spice up your relationships.

Andrew Kibe: No, no. But when I'm playing, we are playing. I'm playing FIFA. I

Dialogues With Jagero: mean, why

Andrew Kibe: are you putting them together? Why are you putting porn on it? I mean,

Dialogues With Jagero: picture in picture, my nigga. 83 inch.

Andrew Kibe: Ah, ah.

Dialogues With Jagero: Pee pee.

Dialogues With Jagero: But you. You like at least Kangona, Okidogo, but you know, but you know. Pee and pee. I also

Andrew Kibe: I also play it with someone else. I always play with someone. I hate playing against the computer myself.

Dialogues With Jagero: Oh, so you have to. So she plays also.

Andrew Kibe: No, she doesn't play. My friends.

Dialogues With Jagero: Girls or boys? Boys. Yeah.

Andrew Kibe: Come to my house and we play.

Dialogues With Jagero: They come to your house?

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. We take over the sitting room and play for hours.

Andrew Kibe: My wife can be in the bedroom with another TV.

Andrew Kibe: Watching there.

Dialogues With Jagero: You see how good it is to be single, you can see.

Andrew Kibe: And

Dialogues With Jagero: I imagine. Yeah. Me, I can have that without that person in the bedroom.

Dialogues With Jagero: So like now, if I call, if I call Micah, I tell him, come to the digs.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: We can start from scratch.

Dialogues With Jagero: We can get some very. Ugly girls or very hot girls. It doesn't matter. We'll decide.

Dialogues With Jagero: Now you, you're playing at 11. When I say wife, I mean, Peter, I'm going to miss you. You miss you.

Dialogues With Jagero: And I'm not going to use them both. What do you think? I shout. Do you know how to ask? Do I see the

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: water? No. Me

Dialogues With Jagero: like if if my boys were to come to my house, I don't invite anybody, though. But if they want to come, I would just go sleep and leave them there. Okay.

Andrew Kibe: If you, if you married, if you are married,

Dialogues With Jagero: no, I wouldn't get married. Married is for fools. I talk to you.

Unknown: And

Dialogues With Jagero: I'm not calling you a fool, but your mother, your mother and father were married. Were they fools? Totally. Really? Hmm. Well, imagine two people raising four kids in a two bedroom flat with one toilet. Yeah. Those geniuses.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: I didn't know. Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't imagine. Yes. I'm on a ground.

Dialogues With Jagero: Hey, no, I don't know. I love we do it. Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: It was everybody. Everybody was like that at that time. That was an Mo. Yeah. All our parents were fools. What are going to see the same place? The same number of kids. Bro. It was like a pandemic.

Andrew Kibe: Let me ask you, Kimi, if you were to withdraw, to refactor marriage and relationships. Yeah. How would you? How do you think people should give birth today? Reproduction? How does it work? So now, first of all, I'm not saying you should be. you just go impregnate a girl on the streets and let her take care of the child or how would it happen without marriage think

Dialogues With Jagero: like a farmer okay

Andrew Kibe: do

Dialogues With Jagero: you know anything about farming i

Andrew Kibe: do i used to i used to do tomatoes when i was in high school to pay some of the school fees have

Dialogues With Jagero: you done um okay you know about numbers yes my

Andrew Kibe: grandfather had lots of them yeah

Dialogues With Jagero: you know your grandfather is not going to allow his cows to be touched by any bull no

Andrew Kibe: no why i

Andrew Kibe: don't know why i

Dialogues With Jagero: mean think about it he's not going to allow his cows to be impregnated by any bull he has to look for yes a big ass bull and in the village the people are known the ones with bulls are known and they charge for that for every jot

Dialogues With Jagero: bull bull is the valuable one here yes

Andrew Kibe: and

Dialogues With Jagero: you have to have kept your bull clean and everything bro this guy personally feeds the bull himself doesn't allow anyone to why

Unknown: his

Andrew Kibe: business yes gives him something at the end of the day no

Dialogues With Jagero: you want good quality product so why can't we look at uh production uh reproduction like that instead

Dialogues With Jagero: of having useless people being born here every day we do eugenics okay

Audience: yes

Dialogues With Jagero: where we are conscious about what we're doing it's not love anymore it's not us in our imagination it is this person sees this person and they see either a business empire uh maybe you want good looking kids but you have to think like that stop being emotional about something that is very practical okay

Andrew Kibe: so anyway go ahead how does it so now look

Dialogues With Jagero: at the the the white women in america

Andrew Kibe: okay white

Dialogues With Jagero: women in america what they do they identify someone like wanjala here okay yeah a tall guy who has all these abilities and physique and everything athletic

Dialogues With Jagero: they seduce him

Unknown: so

Dialogues With Jagero: they can get his seat okay and supercharge it

Unknown: so

Dialogues With Jagero: now if you look at the nba all sports in america now you've got all sports want to

Unknown: brown

Andrew Kibe: to brown to

Dialogues With Jagero: pointy hey because up to be

Dialogues With Jagero: whatever it is those parents want because already he has the natural ability

Andrew Kibe: he's

Dialogues With Jagero: like imagine having 10 injeras in your these are your sons god damn just think about that jagera think about 10 injera that's

Andrew Kibe: amazing the one who cooks on the balcony no

Dialogues With Jagero: that's that's the janthropers

Andrew Kibe: what do you mean

Dialogues With Jagero: yeah i call him zinger why because he he came at me with some low vibration really yes i was very disappointed i was like man and i and i liked you he's swapped at you online some low -vibration shit he

Andrew Kibe: was

Dialogues With Jagero: pushing some some propaganda that had been spun by somebody so I was like come on

Unknown: I

Dialogues With Jagero: wouldn't say anything about you that I don't know yeah okay if you put up a video online I'll talk about the video and look at the girl he's so lambistic and he's bending on one knee to propose to his wife and I make fun of you yeah but I'm just making fun of you based on what you have given us hmm

Unknown: okay

Dialogues With Jagero: I don't I won't go concoct a story and come and say oh you know Jaggeros like this and like that I don't that's what he did while cooking I know he put it on on a tweet oh is that so yeah so I was like you fucking idiot bastard syndrome troopers yeah yeah because he shouldn't have done that not for people who are in the same industry we are in the same industry

Andrew Kibe: yeah great so then so then you will go pick up so that's that's what you what you think marriage should be and in relationships and it should

Dialogues With Jagero: be as the way you think about chickens just don't buy any chickens this for you bro

Unknown: the

Dialogues With Jagero: way you think about anything in life even when you're buying a car you just don't a car is a car no it's a car is not a car a woman is not a woman yeah

Unknown: that

Dialogues With Jagero: I agree yes a woman there's one who's going to destroy you the one who's going to hold you down

Unknown: but

Dialogues With Jagero: a woman is not a woman so you cannot tell me let's all just talk about getting married how many clubs have you seen pop -up baby

Dialogues With Jagero: nobody can't imagine I'm so bored a goddammit

Unknown: 14

Dialogues With Jagero: move around and go yeah Ayana cool Anna tune a pili pili I

Andrew Kibe: must be decisive even when it hurts you

Dialogues With Jagero: must always make decisions from a man

Unknown: must always make decisions from a woman

Dialogues With Jagero: yes I that's a beautiful stage for a man when you learn how to make decisions like now when you can tell your mom no it's

Dialogues With Jagero: not my decision think

Dialogues With Jagero: about that when you can tell your own mother no

Dialogues With Jagero: it's a scary thought very

Andrew Kibe: yeah but but your

Dialogues With Jagero: mom is waiting for you to to grow the up and do that yeah

Andrew Kibe: and you think that women women sense it immediately

Dialogues With Jagero: you even get wet a

Dialogues With Jagero: man who makes decisions yeah women love it

Andrew Kibe: they take advantage of it oh

Dialogues With Jagero: men women women love men who take decisions who make decisions yes so they love it so the man who does that does not have time to be discussing with her anything how

Andrew Kibe: about the women they say you didn't you didn't involve me what's going on no

Dialogues With Jagero: men who make decisions don't have time to listen to women

Unknown: what

Dialogues With Jagero: is the woman telling you

Dialogues With Jagero: women are for good times the gay wrong good times like when i saw this chick you are with him

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: immediately

Dialogues With Jagero: i was like this is good times she's waiting she's ready it's just that her feminist feminism cannot allow her but she knows me and her would have great sex

Unknown: she

Dialogues With Jagero: knows i mean she can tell

Unknown: she

Dialogues With Jagero: can feel it feel it i mean these things are there but she knows because of the person that i am she also has to show them who she is how showing who she is out there I mean we're be extremely careful

Andrew Kibe: but but then they but

Dialogues With Jagero: then there's a guy who's simping in her inbox badly

Dialogues With Jagero: saying all manner of nonsense and she is ignoring him but here she's waiting for somebody else bro

Andrew Kibe: somebody hearing that would say well women have brains they can make decisions too i mean all of them but we have got women ceos we've got women engineers we've got women doctors making serious decisions when touching that nerve touching that i

Dialogues With Jagero: i don't know i don't know who those people are this world is run by men

Unknown: so

Dialogues With Jagero: you can get in your imagination but they are not real these are jobs we give them

Unknown: this

Dialogues With Jagero: is csr

Unknown: if

Dialogues With Jagero: i was honest i would rather give that job to a man

Dialogues With Jagero: really yes men work harder men work harder and they work longer and they complain less but they are extremely disagreeable meaning they'll do a better job

Dialogues With Jagero: because

Unknown: agreeable

Dialogues With Jagero: but women are agreeable so women will run your company into the ground to the

Dialogues With Jagero: ground

Unknown: but

Andrew Kibe: women have got very very nice business going on here mr mr like which one it's a lambistic

Andrew Kibe: come on

Dialogues With Jagero: bro they do very well there

Dialogues With Jagero: well listen man i've also been told that men give so much for their почy um we have seen it in the media that but in a serious way and they and they don't get paid it's not great um the women are making more money than men in pornography you know that in

Andrew Kibe: pornography yeah i didn't know that getting that from you you

Dialogues With Jagero: see the disparity in um nba players the men make so much money and the women are making almost nothing

Andrew Kibe: yeah that

Dialogues With Jagero: is how it is in porn

Unknown: the

Andrew Kibe: women are

Dialogues With Jagero: making all the money the men you can sell dick for shit

Unknown: is

Dialogues With Jagero: not valuable

Unknown: because

Dialogues With Jagero: the people who make money are good or bad who have money have dicks like yours oh

Andrew Kibe: yeah i see women

Dialogues With Jagero: don't spend on anything apart from their own last and

Dialogues With Jagero: the last has nothing to do with men

Unknown: the

Dialogues With Jagero: continuous the last has nothing to do with men no no you

Dialogues With Jagero: see what you need to understand is that the cleat does not want a man the cleat just wants it's like like when you when you get to almost that place where you're about to come there's nothing else that matters it doesn't matter what hole that is

Unknown: so

Dialogues With Jagero: it doesn't matter what hole you're in when you're about to come you're about to come it can be anything it doesn't matter even a porcupine go

Andrew Kibe: where you are celebrated not where you are no not where you are tolerated please

Dialogues With Jagero: you'd rather be sleeping on a mattress but don't never never be what

Andrew Kibe: is the context of this of this of of of this in the in chapter three you

Dialogues With Jagero: see it's it's to give guys a bit of backbone yeah yeah because you need to be where

Unknown: people

Dialogues With Jagero: are recognizing you if they don't recognize you then you're useless

Dialogues With Jagero: and what are you doing there go build some value

Unknown: be

Dialogues With Jagero: valuable be like jacquero again who invites you to a podcast you must come

Unknown: be

Dialogues With Jagero: valuable because

Unknown: what

Dialogues With Jagero: else are we as men i'm not beautiful i can't sell my dick with whiskey i have value so i have to have something i have to have some skills i have to have something that can convert into money so what are you doing there and people are celebrating you i'll give you an example

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: okay

Dialogues With Jagero: i think i wrote it in the book

Dialogues With Jagero: there's a burst pipe there

Unknown: you

Dialogues With Jagero: say plumber plumber plumber plumber

Dialogues With Jagero: plumber

Dialogues With Jagero: plumber plumber plumber plumber plumber

Dialogues With Jagero: plumber plumber plumber

Andrew Kibe: plumber plumber plumber plumber

Dialogues With Jagero: It was hard as fuck. What was hard

Andrew Kibe: about it?

Dialogues With Jagero: Commitment. You know how hard commitment is? Especially for a spirit like mine. To commit to go to a new county every day. That thing was hard as fuck, man. Hey, Eleni Sumbua.

Andrew Kibe: You guys, at some point you were buying those things. At

Dialogues With Jagero: some point you

Andrew Kibe: were buying those things on a truck. Did you really ride all the way?

Dialogues With Jagero: On a truck, why?

Dialogues With Jagero: You had truck money. Those guys were hanging. We were living by the grace of Accord.

Dialogues With Jagero: Jagero, you didn't even send me five G's. You were like, hey, Kibe, on your trip, enjoy that. Even the book you bought, you bought it like a puny.

Dialogues With Jagero: You bought it like a puny. You bought

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: it like a puny. Yes,

Dialogues With Jagero: I'm a hawker now.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: My

Dialogues With Jagero: name is Hawker.

Dialogues With Jagero: I can't be at my best and not buy my book.

Andrew Kibe: But

Dialogues With Jagero: I

Andrew Kibe: like it, man. Who did this one?

Dialogues With Jagero: Just give me the credit.

Dialogues With Jagero: The book is mine.

Dialogues With Jagero: How do you like it?

Dialogues With Jagero: It's beautiful. Very nice.

Andrew Kibe: But they washed you in Photoshop. Why are you like this?

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: This is a

Dialogues With Jagero: true depiction of the man.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: Photoshop.

Dialogues With Jagero: Your worst days, you'll remember them as your best days.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: Life is very funny. Your worst days, the ones you think are the worst, you'll remember them as your best days. You'll be like, oh.

Dialogues With Jagero: At the time when I was sleeping on the mattress, I used to think, oh man, this is so bad. Can I ask you, Kibe? What

Andrew Kibe: is your worst day in life? Worst?

Dialogues With Jagero: That night I ate McFries.

Dialogues With Jagero: That night I was so tired. You

Andrew Kibe: ate McFries every day?

Dialogues With Jagero: I try to. Every day? As much as I can.

Dialogues With Jagero: What is so good about it? I don't know, man. I think that guy, he bewitched me.

Dialogues With Jagero: Why? There's nothing special here. But yesterday, I ate some Nigerian chicken at a place called Mchana Pub and Grill.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: Okay.

Dialogues With Jagero: Jagero, please go there and eat that Nigerian chicken.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: I will go there with my wife. Look at this.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: I just wanted to annoy the fuck out of you.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: I just wanted to annoy you.

Dialogues With Jagero: Jagero, you knew.

Unknown: You knew.

Dialogues With Jagero: You know, Jagero, it's impossible to do business with a married man.

Andrew Kibe: Ah, no.

Dialogues With Jagero: It's

Andrew Kibe: not true.

Dialogues With Jagero: It's impossible.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah, why?

Dialogues With Jagero: Because married men have to go back to mama to make decisions.

Andrew Kibe: Those are some of them. Yeah. So I'm sure

Dialogues With Jagero: you didn't tell your wife that I was coming today. Because if you told her, as a boy, Selena, but you're in a sadist, I'm going to be, honey.

Dialogues With Jagero: But it is also... Or you'd call and say, Kibe, things have changed slightly.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: Let me tell you something. There

Dialogues With Jagero: is a Moheshi Miwa who

Andrew Kibe: has just confirmed. Can we push to... Do you know... Maybe never. Do you know I spoke with Elliot? Elliot tells me that Chinyamaji, a lot of women who have got sons, go to him

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: to

Andrew Kibe: help them with their sons. So wherever you are sitting, don't think that all women hate you. All women want their sons to be like you. Some women want their sons to be like you.

Dialogues With Jagero: You agree?

Dialogues With Jagero: It would be foolhardy not to. Yeah. Because why wouldn't you want your son to be strong? Strong and decisive.

Andrew Kibe: That's the thing. It doesn't matter what you think now, what your current situation is. Your assumption...

Dialogues With Jagero: No, I didn't make that assumption. Bro, you know I blast women. Yeah. Me and women have a very good relationship. Especially me and prostitutes. We love each other.

Dialogues With Jagero: I love my prostitutes. I love my hoes. What's up, my hoes? Who?

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: Who

Dialogues With Jagero: are they? Whatever. I mean, these are my people, bro. You don't decide who your hoe is going to be. You let God decide that. You don't let God decide that.

Dialogues With Jagero: You don't let God decide who your hoe is going to be. Who am I?

Dialogues With Jagero: I don't want to be God's hoe.

Dialogues With Jagero: God has given me a hoe until I'm 20. Do

Andrew Kibe: you have a girlfriend now?

Dialogues With Jagero: Am I stupid?

Andrew Kibe: Surely.

Dialogues With Jagero: You are not supposed to have a girlfriend. What is that? Am I in class 6?

Dialogues With Jagero: He's my girlfriend. Am I a man?

Dialogues With Jagero: Those are things for children, brother. Really? When you mature, then you realize. Those titles mean nothing. It's like introducing yourself. I'm a pastor. Pastor, shut the fuck up. Nobody cares. How is your pastor friend? The one you

Andrew Kibe: came with last year?

Dialogues With Jagero: Doing very well. He's doing very well? Very well. He's in Bungoma right now. His name is Daniel Wabala. Very nice guy.

Dialogues With Jagero: He's not

Andrew Kibe: pastoring. He's not pastoring. He

Dialogues With Jagero: said he wants to be real.

Dialogues With Jagero: He's not pastoring. He's not pastoring. He must wear the sheep's clothing.

Andrew Kibe: A man is not given a chance. He creates it. There

Dialogues With Jagero: we go.

Andrew Kibe: What does that mean for the men who don't know?

Dialogues With Jagero: You see, a lot of people are waiting.

Dialogues With Jagero: There are a lot of men right now who are waiting. I used to be like that. I used to be a guy who was waiting for Hollywood to come and pick me. So you think that somehow, somewhere, somebody is going to notice your brilliance and then come and give it to you. Whatever it is that you think you are worth.

Dialogues With Jagero: There's nobody like that who exists. Nobody. Nobody is coming for you.

Dialogues With Jagero: Create it. Whatever it is you have in your idea, start creating it. And now, with the internet, it's very easy.

Dialogues With Jagero: We want to watch everything. Bro, me, I watch videos of butchers. You know butchers? I say, you know, a man is cutting grass.

Dialogues With Jagero: But he doesn't have the skills.

Dialogues With Jagero: He's cutting grass. You see, he tells you, it's a piece for what? And also, I've been obsessed with some guys in India who cut grass. They cut a fish. Ouch, ouch, ouch, ouch, ouch. You can't catch a big fish and in one minute, he's diced it up

Unknown: in

Dialogues With Jagero: a bag and somebody's going home with it. I'm like, fuck in hell. And of course, you have to go through trials.

Dialogues With Jagero: I mean, you have to be real with yourself. You know. What kind of

Andrew Kibe: trials?

Dialogues With Jagero: Trials. Trials like Diabs.

Andrew Kibe: Diabs? Yeah. Diabs. Do people cut?

Dialogues With Jagero: No. No. I mean, those women who sell on the internet. Ah. She has a mungai. Mungai Eve? Mungai Eve. So I go through and watch them. To do school. To do school. But

Andrew Kibe: Mungai Eve, I thought she was a content creator.

Dialogues With Jagero: Yeah. She is. That's how she has feelings.

Dialogues With Jagero: Really? Yeah. But once you mature, then you're able to see these things very easily. But Mungai Eve is a content creator. Even only fans see the content they create.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: Who?

Dialogues With Jagero: Only fans. Mungai Eve? No. I'm saying only fans. Yes. You see the content. The content. Yes.

Dialogues With Jagero: So what's the problem? I don't get it.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah.

Andrew Kibe: People are saying that when you had an interview with her, that you told her, you go get content, you know, blah, blah, blah. We thought that she was going to have a podcast. No. No.

Dialogues With Jagero: You see, the women don't really want to work. They want the easy way out. Oh, really? Yeah. Which is selling punani.

Dialogues With Jagero: Imagine if you had something so valuable, people are willing to pay for it. Like if my dick was valuable. And then as I talk about it.

Dialogues With Jagero: Can I take you to Diani? Oh, my God. Just for this?

Dialogues With Jagero: Oh, my God. Yeah. So you tell me, how can you resist that?

Dialogues With Jagero: We as men, we judge our women too harshly. Really? Yes. A beautiful woman. How can she resist?

Dialogues With Jagero: As I told you, if you're going to marry, marry the ugliest.

Dialogues With Jagero: You get a kid. What are you going to do? I

Unknown: don't

Dialogues With Jagero: know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.

Dialogues With Jagero: Then from here on out, as a husband, What I'm trying to do in my lesson is so beautiful. I'm saying it to you with love, Because life is such

Dialogues With Jagero: a big свет. Wow!

Dialogues With Jagero: Like, a human is far out there, rather that child is a child. And I want to get out of the seminal frame, Is

Dialogues With Jagero: that already? Yes.

Dialogues With Jagero: Move over, move over. Jamal, oh boy distress

Dialogues With Jagero: kill

Andrew Kibe: mr. nice guy who is a nice guy could you say they unleash the beast kill the mr. nice guy yeah

Dialogues With Jagero: stop being a doormat meaning

Andrew Kibe: explain for me please for the men while listening you

Dialogues With Jagero: see men are not created to be doormats

Unknown: yeah

Dialogues With Jagero: there's a small problem for man to be solving

Unknown: of

Dialogues With Jagero: being a punching bag mother

Dialogues With Jagero: -in -law because even owners care Nicky do pussy and I come here you know you can hear it this is nonsense

Dialogues With Jagero: and mama mrs.

Dialogues With Jagero: Anna Columbia project I took a defunct wake up with a place I can't be open with a watch you could you have a good you can see I

Dialogues With Jagero: was not as mom's kids a junior mom's as I'm

Dialogues With Jagero: Zach I'm a dog who's a boozy how

Unknown: much

Dialogues With Jagero: money have have many have many have many have many have many have many have many have many wasted on stupid ideas coming from their parents stupid coming ideas coming from your siblings you know it's a stupid idea but you cannot go against them because you're such a nice guy I'm a nice guy's gonna do when I wanna protect a job corporate so I'm and I could be part of somebody so that

Andrew Kibe: man

Dialogues With Jagero: I'm gonna I'm gonna be a woman on a Mac I say I don't want to chicks even on your eye I gonna keep so they keep fucking with you but

Dialogues With Jagero: if you're not a nice guy then nobody's coming with bullshit

Unknown: because

Dialogues With Jagero: you will tell them straight up hey listen this is a bullshit idea and I'm not going to invest in it go think of something else telling

Andrew Kibe: your mother that mother is gonna be pissed

Dialogues With Jagero: why is my mom talking to me she she has her husband

Dialogues With Jagero: go talk to your husband you are my mother don't think you can dominate me go talk to us but and I'm not talking about my own mom but if even though I am so what

Unknown: bodo

Dialogues With Jagero: G has banned

Unknown: me

Dialogues With Jagero: I'm a child I'm June's son my husband is children

Dialogues With Jagero: to want to build a new house your husband your mistake is that guy

Unknown: that

Dialogues With Jagero: is your failure woman deal with your failures in your life

Andrew Kibe: it

Dialogues With Jagero: sounds harsh though it's

Andrew Kibe: very harsh yeah it does i don't agree with you you

Dialogues With Jagero: don't at all

Unknown: because

Dialogues With Jagero: you like you love mamas now

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: yeah yeah

Dialogues With Jagero: you want to call her right now i

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: love

Andrew Kibe: lua

Dialogues With Jagero: yeah

Andrew Kibe: i

Dialogues With Jagero: wish i could learn how to speak it properly i wish i had the time the

Andrew Kibe: time to learn it yeah you could learn it and why did you learn kikuyu i love lua yeah i wish i could learn how to speak it properly i wish i had the time

Dialogues With Jagero: um in india

Unknown: what

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: do you mean bro

Unknown: so you

Dialogues With Jagero: know the way i was raised it was not much kikuyu it was just kikuyu yeah yeah to buy cabbages okay yeah so when i finished high school i went to bible school i went to india when i went to india i learned this place

Unknown: we

Dialogues With Jagero: have a place called wawero wawero comes from muranga interior

Dialogues With Jagero: you

Dialogues With Jagero: so his first time is kikuyu so to him it was the best thing that ever happened but

Andrew Kibe: you came in

Dialogues With Jagero: because he was alone there

Dialogues With Jagero: and i'm right across his door he lives here i live there

Dialogues With Jagero: so it was kikuyu threw out from his side

Unknown: i

Dialogues With Jagero: was like yeah let me take a chance and land so i land a lot of times i can throw some kikuyu out of a lot of uh pronunciations if today i go for a rally somewhere i'll throw in some people he was yeah there we go

Andrew Kibe: are you still are you still running for

Dialogues With Jagero: president i told you

Andrew Kibe: no for you know you were supposed to be an mp no

Dialogues With Jagero: that was then i told you i'm going for presidents i said it last time i was here why are you forgetting you said you

Andrew Kibe: were going into politics you are going into politics but you know i said

Dialogues With Jagero: presidency it's presidents your bust

Andrew Kibe: presidency

Dialogues With Jagero: the only thing that i will do is put my name name is rafael bahat the presidency I'll ballot torn up

Unknown: why

Dialogues With Jagero: am I going for MP

Unknown: the

Dialogues With Jagero: problems that need to be sorted I'm too many if those are president of the world I would even go for that one how

Andrew Kibe: do you think our president is doing I don't want to talk about it

Dialogues With Jagero: no it's very well it's presidency extremely well really that's his presidency extremely well she's showing us every day you can see talented stadium you can see bombers you can see this you can see that so he's doing extremely well he's not your president

Unknown: your

Dialogues With Jagero: guy died the other day you know which guy right I'm gonna order was you was your guy

Andrew Kibe: no it

Dialogues With Jagero: wasn't did you ever interview yeah

Andrew Kibe: no

Unknown: I

Andrew Kibe: was some country but you're a lure

Dialogues With Jagero: your your customer

Andrew Kibe: was supposed to get him for me but it wasn't able to say to turn on a human I know

Dialogues With Jagero: that's what is useless are you sending us it was

Andrew Kibe: the one it was it was the one in the cockpit with him who else could I ask no

Dialogues With Jagero: ask you ask people here

Andrew Kibe: Sifuna the last the last I talked with him he was sitting there it was amazing podcast it

Dialogues With Jagero: was yeah the last is very interesting very interesting very interesting Eric

Andrew Kibe: Amundi I called him

Dialogues With Jagero: but he keeps going like this yeah he's a woman really yeah you don't have women in your podcast come on Jaggero

Unknown: why

Dialogues With Jagero: would you bring Eric here come on Eric sorry Jaggero hey it's a woman that one spending rumors very useless fellow now

Dialogues With Jagero: she jumped together I want you to get the two differences

Andrew Kibe: a lot go on I

Dialogues With Jagero: operate like a I want him to knowing in my head the one woman darryl hello he

Andrew Kibe: was he was he was and now he was he was voted the best influencer in 2020 five oh

Dialogues With Jagero: is it yeah he's very good at what it does Quando lu kind of out because name too stupid that he spread rumors about yes I mean children so there was some about me really yes what did he say there's a video bro he said I was living in America with a woman called Judith

Dialogues With Jagero: because we're pool players if if you were to come and watch us playing pool oh your mom this your uncle that you see how I'm fucking you you come and watch us play pool you can't even walk yeah you're walking funny you know even in groups so we love pool so we love pool but that's where I come in because we're coaches but pool is real pool is pool

Dialogues With Jagero: but you're calling it a press conference he called it a press conference

Andrew Kibe: what were you talking about I

Dialogues With Jagero: mean I don't know anyone that's not the point but he called it a press conference he sat down there and he said and he took a glass of water and made sure I had my blood Andrew's gonna be on the same train not to worry I'm gonna go back to that task yeah yeah white I mean she gave in he got a gonna evidence come and Zach

Unknown: keep

Dialogues With Jagero: and I know I like I got a guy another

Dialogues With Jagero: useless fellow that

Andrew Kibe: was serious

Dialogues With Jagero: very very he was coming he's probably the part of the reason why youtube cancelled me also really yeah yeah these weak people from the latrine

Unknown: get

Andrew Kibe: the discipline you are always talking about the discipline in fact when we first talked about uh your story the other time you talked to me about making videos i don't know how many videos in a day so tell me a little bit about discipline first millions are coming

Andrew Kibe: so

Dialogues With Jagero: disciplines you see the thing is this discipline is like when you say this is my goal my goal is to do this okay so you must be you must make sure that that is what you do

Unknown: this

Dialogues With Jagero: is my goal this is what i have committed to doing even if you even if you were to fail you must have that like now let me get an example i said a shop called midiakali me and a friend of mine called peter

Dialogues With Jagero: his dad used to call him peter

Andrew Kibe: peter

Dialogues With Jagero: so me and fat pete he's called fat pete i started a movie store

Dialogues With Jagero: okay now in that movie store i committed to myself i never told him i committed to myself because me me mependa shire is

Dialogues With Jagero: well you were running a little store because i was running a small store you know i like that and whatever whatever happens whatever calms comes you know what i mean

Unknown: but

Dialogues With Jagero: i need to run the shop

Dialogues With Jagero: and the shop needs me

Unknown: because

Dialogues With Jagero: it was a very tiny shop when we started and you are here but you have no money you

Unknown: know

Dialogues With Jagero: i mean but i need to run the shop and the shop needs me because it was a very tiny shop when we started and you and so i cannot commit to their handler i have to commit to the job so they do it will come this will go out so every day when you leave the shop, you can pass by the store. i said to myself hey bro it doesn't matter what you do you must be at the shop at eight o'clock in the morning

Unknown: so

Dialogues With Jagero: you can destroy your body all you want but the commitment here is that you're at the shop at eight o'clock in the morning those are two very different people so i committed to that and for one year

Unknown: pete

Dialogues With Jagero: and i never took a break one year because we used to be open monday to monday one year i committed to that business that discipline it gave us everything every bro we were able to do anything with what we wanted we were making so much money it was ridiculous

Dialogues With Jagero: we didn't know we're going to make money

Unknown: but

Dialogues With Jagero: when we committed we ended up making you were selling

Andrew Kibe: movies in different dvds yes

Dialogues With Jagero: i was the biggest movie selling probably in africa really brah bad news

Unknown: ask

Dialogues With Jagero: anybody they know media kali my god

Dialogues With Jagero: bad news why

Andrew Kibe: did you guys stop i

Dialogues With Jagero: mean the internet came streaming came we should have converted but we never did

Unknown: so

Dialogues With Jagero: to calcutta

Dialogues With Jagero: we tucked our tails in like a

Unknown: man

Andrew Kibe: shall not die a man shall not lie that's why you hate him only so much

Dialogues With Jagero: yes i had a money because he lied and

Andrew Kibe: i know that guy here he cooks really well the keeper was cooking with him on the balcony

Dialogues With Jagero: so there are three people the last is not part of them the last i just understood him but erica amondi is indian troopers he's

Andrew Kibe: called he's called omondi

Dialogues With Jagero: no no i he's a woman erica amondi erica ah so there's erica there's ginger ginger also lied about me and then the third one is who

Unknown: i'm

Dialogues With Jagero: not even annoyed at uh the donkey i actually like the donkey a lot who

Andrew Kibe: is the donkey

Dialogues With Jagero: the character the donkey

Andrew Kibe: karji yeah

Andrew Kibe: he also lied about you yeah

Dialogues With Jagero: he also lied about me even sonko lied about me sonko i call him bosco he lied about me even

Dialogues With Jagero: a ganudia canada has so many problems with his wife i have forgiven gano they are forgiven you can you then

Andrew Kibe: nani

Dialogues With Jagero: ganovia you don't know ganovia no

Andrew Kibe: are you

Dialogues With Jagero: operating no but you're

Andrew Kibe: always saying canada you were like everybody who is who is who is you don't know hey

Dialogues With Jagero: jageru to buy your bundles but

Andrew Kibe: micah

Dialogues With Jagero: organized for him wait

Andrew Kibe: micah micah micah micah

Dialogues With Jagero: micah micah

Dialogues With Jagero: Why are

Andrew Kibe: you calling him that?

Dialogues With Jagero: Nganudhia is a business legit.

Dialogues With Jagero: Why are you calling him that? Why are you calling him that?

Dialogues With Jagero: Very useless fellow.

Dialogues With Jagero: And I'm a big fan. I'm a big fan of Terence. Creative. I find him to be very good at what he does.

Andrew Kibe: The other day, he told me to finish online.

Dialogues With Jagero: When you build your house of glass,

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: you don't know what to do.

Dialogues With Jagero: You don't know what to do. You don't know what to do. You don't know what to do.

Dialogues With Jagero: Yeah.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: He saw he was a beast. This

Dialogues With Jagero: game is like a beast.

Dialogues With Jagero: So I want to be a dame. Make sure this dame is a beast like you. You know what I'm saying? Like how they do in Kabahani. Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: Two beasts just existing. I don't know about you. You know what I'm saying?

Dialogues With Jagero: You know what to do is just for the show.

Dialogues With Jagero: See you tomorrow. Eight o'clock in the morning. Yes. They report to work.

Andrew Kibe: As wife and husband.

Dialogues With Jagero: As wife and husband. It's genius. Is that really true? I mean, it's genius.

Andrew Kibe: No. You're the one who's now lying.

Dialogues With Jagero: No, I'm just saying it sounds plausible, doesn't it? It does. This is just speculating. I'm not saying that's what they do. I don't know. I don't give a shit if that's what they do. But I'm saying it would make a lot of sense if that's what they do. Mm.

Andrew Kibe: Amanda doesn't apologize. You're lying, Boro. True. You have to apologize. True. To your fellow man. Kim Kosea. Like right now, you'd like Erika Amundi to apologize to you.

Dialogues With Jagero: No, makosa ifanyikangi.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah?

Dialogues With Jagero: Makosa ifanyikangi. So me, I'm your bitch now. Where, where, where? You don't have, you don't have the maturity to process what is happening.

Dialogues With Jagero: Nika, kuna mtu akiliya ju mtu amededi.

Andrew Kibe: Uli?

Dialogues With Jagero: Unaliya ju mtu amededi.

Dialogues With Jagero: Akiliyako ezi process that death is part of life.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. So

Dialogues With Jagero: why are you crying? Like a bitch.

Andrew Kibe: But even kukonga mgu kwa meza is part of life. Yeah, but as

Dialogues With Jagero: a man, Nazma, you hold this shit in. You don't express yourself like a woman.

Dialogues With Jagero: Me, I have friends who I have to keep apologizing at wezi kwa mabeste.

Dialogues With Jagero: Because I fuck up all the time.

Dialogues With Jagero: That's part of life. It's fuck up. You understand me, I understand you. Naka, you ewezi. Tembea na yesu.

Andrew Kibe: Una sama fix the mistake. Wacha ufana. Sipato

Dialogues With Jagero: tuko pamoja na wewe.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: But uki enda taso mejaa mshauri yako.

Dialogues With Jagero: But tuko pamoja. Why do you want me to have to come down to apologize? For what?

Andrew Kibe: So what is the correct way of going about it? We keep

Dialogues With Jagero: moving. We

Andrew Kibe: fix the mistake.

Dialogues With Jagero: Whatever. If it's fixable. If it's not. Imagine now, I have to apologize to my father because I impregnated him. Why? That doesn't make any sense.

Dialogues With Jagero: Sorry, why? I was not sorry when I was putting my dick. Be replaced.

Dialogues With Jagero: Mediakali.

Dialogues With Jagero: Build or be replaced.

Andrew Kibe: What do you think should have... How should you have guys changed that business, the Mediakali business?

Dialogues With Jagero: Because we were doing the physical DVDs. So we should have moved from the physical to streaming.

Dialogues With Jagero: Signing a Mercedes -Benz S700, bro.

Andrew Kibe: Lakin isi uli kuja uka ipata. Uka iwacha US.

Dialogues With Jagero: Nene. Got it. That's my fix. But you said it's in the US.

Dialogues With Jagero: Why do you want to take things from US to bring them here?

Andrew Kibe: I'm just saying that you've got another business. Another one.

Dialogues With Jagero: But that was... Iyo kazi likuwa ni kazi ya US. Owelewi. Kazi ya hapa lazo ma ito ya Mercedes -Benz ya ake. Kwele.

Dialogues With Jagero: Iyo, your time, if we had moved our business, just

Dialogues With Jagero: segued into streaming. You

Andrew Kibe: know, you know...

Dialogues With Jagero: Oh, we had the best catalogue. Better than anybody... Where was the show? Better than Netflix.

Andrew Kibe: Where was the show?

Dialogues With Jagero: We had two. One in Langata na ingine Narobi West.

Andrew Kibe: We ulikuwa ko wapi?

Dialogues With Jagero: Zote zaz shuttle bus. You... Shuttle back and forth. Ayutuwa ba na ka. You got...

Dialogues With Jagero: Ingia hapu wibi mtoz ya mekuja mtoz. You know, ma workers wana aza kukimbia -kimbia. Very nice.

Andrew Kibe: But I hear people are still buying the DVDs.

Dialogues With Jagero: Oh, I don't know. But for us, it stopped making us money.

Dialogues With Jagero: It stopped? Yeah, I mean, who's buying DVDs anymore?

Andrew Kibe: Because

Dialogues With Jagero: us guys were pushing some serious units.

Andrew Kibe: A lot? A

Dialogues With Jagero: lot.

Andrew Kibe: Like in a day, you would be doing what?

Dialogues With Jagero: We do over like 60K.

Andrew Kibe: 60K a day?

Dialogues With Jagero: Yeah. And that was probably even profit.

Dialogues With Jagero: Eh, tulikuwa na collect doa hapu ilikuwa ni madness.

Dialogues With Jagero: So lazima you monitor your doa. Otherwise, ni doa buta na kakubia bila we kujua.

Andrew Kibe: Wow.

Dialogues With Jagero: When we started the business, my target was to make 3K a day.

Andrew Kibe: 3K a day? Yes.

Dialogues With Jagero: So I'd gone to a movie hall in... a movie shop in South B... South C. Nika angalia, nika asama, tuka make 3K a day. Sayo mahitaji yangu ilikuwa chini, sikuwa na watoi. So, if I make 3K a day, 3K a day, dash, dash, dash, dash, kari 1, 12, nini, nika fanya isabu, nika asama, pita achukwe thao, mini chukwe thao, yuni 30K a month, nile pekeji yangu, ilikuwa 11K, na apa katikati bado nita survive? Survive. Survive. So, the mathematics made a lot of sense.

Dialogues With Jagero: A lot of sense.

Dialogues With Jagero: In one, month, we were making 3K when we opened the door.

Andrew Kibe: In one month?

Dialogues With Jagero: Yes.

Andrew Kibe: One month?

Dialogues With Jagero: In one month, we were making 3K when we opened the door. But

Andrew Kibe: you were supposed to make 3K a day.

Dialogues With Jagero: In my head, if you make 3K a day, we are doing well. In one month. In one year, people were waiting outside the shop

Dialogues With Jagero: and we were doing online sales, labda, usiku zime ingiaka, 20 or 30 orders.

Dialogues With Jagero: Usiku, tuko tumelala. Una mkona pata 20 or 30 orders. On an SMS? On email. On email? Yes. Niyo tuko nbishika maka wazungu. Wow. So, wazungu, Nairobi wate, we used to send movies around the country, around Africa.

Dialogues With Jagero: Wasiwa, Belgium, wana kamana, I said, I'm going back home, I'll need this bongela list.

Andrew Kibe: Have you ever talked about this story anyway? I'm hearing it for the first time.

Dialogues With Jagero: Have you heard about it, Micah?

Dialogues With Jagero: You've heard it? Oh, yeah. I think I've mentioned it once or twice.

Andrew Kibe: So, at the peak of it, how much were you guys selling a day?

Dialogues With Jagero: Bro, it was so much.

Dialogues With Jagero: If the physical shop was giving us 60k,

Dialogues With Jagero: and we were doing

Dialogues With Jagero: 24 hours, because through the night, when the shop is not busy, you can prepare the deliveries. Because the deliveries were so many. So, we had like four people working at night to

Dialogues With Jagero: prepare these movies or make sure. As a boy, a boy would come and start making movies.

Dialogues With Jagero: 30, 40 orders a day. Crazy. People order online. Nobody's ordering less than a thousand.

Andrew Kibe: Some people were actually treating you guys as wholesalers. They take you and go and sell you something else.

Dialogues With Jagero: No, because we don't sell so much.

Dialogues With Jagero: People in town sell up to 30 bob. We don't sell so much and we don't know how to change our base.

Andrew Kibe: Why? Because people don't go to town.

Dialogues With Jagero: Quality. People love quality more than money. Money. Bro, quality.

Dialogues With Jagero: Because, again, remember, you have one and a half hours. You don't sit and watch a movie that is quality. You don't want to watch a fucking camera copy or something that's been recorded badly.

Andrew Kibe: So,

Dialogues With Jagero: us guys took a lot of time during the

Dialogues With Jagero: quality assurance process. We took a lot of time. It took us one year to build that quality assurance to make sure that we have the right movies, the right series, the right package, the right way.

Andrew Kibe: Were you pirating them from Pirates?

Dialogues With Jagero: The movies. What's that word, pirate? The

Andrew Kibe: movies.

Dialogues With Jagero: Why did you use the word pirate?

Andrew Kibe: Which word do you want to use?

Dialogues With Jagero: The pirate we took. Trying to make me into a thug.

Dialogues With Jagero: Like you already want to ask you is a pirate? No. I don't know pirate. I did business legit. It was legit, Kaviza? Bad. We don't pay taxes. We pay our children bro. We had employees. We had like 15 employees.

Dialogues With Jagero: People who are working with shifts.

Dialogues With Jagero: Biggest business ever.

Andrew Kibe: Very

Dialogues With Jagero: nice.

Andrew Kibe: How many employees were you having at the peak of it?

Dialogues With Jagero: Probably like 25.

Andrew Kibe: You take your wine very slowly. I take my wine very fast. You know, latrine people. It's

Dialogues With Jagero: because I know you're struggling. Latrine people.

Dialogues With Jagero: I like it.

Dialogues With Jagero: I don't know what's happening. I don't know. I've seen you've added a few lights. I cannot be too demanding.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. I've added a few lights. Some cameras on the way, Black Magic, my 6K.

Andrew Kibe: Don't come and pay me.

Dialogues With Jagero: Life is good. How is YouTube doing? Very well. Are they paying you good money now?

Andrew Kibe: Yes. They're paying me good money.

Dialogues With Jagero: You've passed the show? Show what? 100K.

Andrew Kibe: Per month?

Dialogues With Jagero: Yeah.

Andrew Kibe: Kitambo? So, how's it going? Hi, Kitambo. You can say it online. You can say it online.

Andrew Kibe: You've passed it. So,

Dialogues With Jagero: now I pay everything here?

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. Very nice. I pay. Very

Dialogues With Jagero: nice. I

Andrew Kibe: pay. But even the books. And

Dialogues With Jagero: it also leaves the money, the money, Airbnb.

Andrew Kibe: What are

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: you

Unknown: talking

Dialogues With Jagero: about? I mean, you're a married man. You know these things.

Dialogues With Jagero: You know,

Andrew Kibe: I'm not a bad boy. I'm a good boy.

Dialogues With Jagero: No, no.

Andrew Kibe: I'm not a bad boy. I'm telling you. I'm a very different man. I'm not a bad man like

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: you. I'm not a bad man.

Dialogues With Jagero: I'll never believe a man who says that.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: Really? Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: I will never. Bro, I have put my faith in, in a man before. You see, I will never, never put my faith in another man.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. So, YouTube is going well. But I also have a book that's selling really well. Your own book? Yes. It's called 26. You know, maybe I've never been employed, Kife. Do you know?

Dialogues With Jagero: No. I've

Andrew Kibe: never been employed. I've never, I've never been employed. Since I left, I left college 16 years ago.

Dialogues With Jagero: I've

Andrew Kibe: always hustled.

Dialogues With Jagero: What's the title of your book?

Andrew Kibe: It's called Goldmine. 26 Online Hustles for Africans.

Dialogues With Jagero: 26 Online Hustles for Africans.

Andrew Kibe: What the things I've done, I've done for the last 15 years.

Dialogues With Jagero: 26 hustles? Yes.

Dialogues With Jagero: And how you made money and how you lost money? I made money,

Andrew Kibe: yeah. That's nice. Where's the book? I did the book. The book is in hard, in soft copy. Why,

Dialogues With Jagero: why not print

Andrew Kibe: it? No. How will I move it? I don't know how to move it in hard. So, I'm selling it in soft. Even yours, you should sell in soft. There's a man who sells it in soft. How is it? If they don't know Kife, they'll get it. I have

Dialogues With Jagero: it in soft.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. I

Dialogues With Jagero: have the audio book and I have this.

Andrew Kibe: Beautiful.

Dialogues With Jagero: I don't, bro, I don't play around. You need to know these things. I look like I'm mad.

Dialogues With Jagero: But I'm business savvy as fuck.

Andrew Kibe: I know you.

Dialogues With Jagero: So, the money you're making, you think I've made that money, how is it with this book? Give it to him before I print it. Right now, I'm starting to call this lap because I've printed the book. Absolutely. Right now, he can come here and we can talk and show the book and I say, hey,

Dialogues With Jagero: you have to come here and I'll give you at least a thousand. I love

Andrew Kibe: the cover, man.

Dialogues With Jagero: It's a beautiful cover. The cover is

Andrew Kibe: beautiful.

Dialogues With Jagero: And my printers did a very, very good

Andrew Kibe: job. You hit the photoshop like a man.

Dialogues With Jagero: Boy.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: Robin, this is

Andrew Kibe: a real seed.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah? Andrew Kibbe.

Andrew Kibe: 28 commandments, a journey into manhood. Get off mama's titties. What does that mean?

Dialogues With Jagero: Especially for you that you love your mother. You know, it's going to be very sensitive. You don't want another glass of wine. Yeah.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Dialogues With Jagero: Yeah. A lot, a lot, especially Kwanzaa, Okangile, Kenya. Especially the Kikuyu community. Those boys don't know how to separate from mama's titties.

Dialogues With Jagero: Mama is still such an influence in a man's life.

Andrew Kibe: I

Dialogues With Jagero: used to be like that.

Dialogues With Jagero: I remember once, it's the most vivid thing.

Dialogues With Jagero: My mom,

Dialogues With Jagero: no, the girl that I was blasting at that time, she invites me to a crusade meeting, a lunchtime crusade. I said meeting. Really? Yeah.

Unknown: I

Dialogues With Jagero: can invite meeting. And Kenovia, being Kenovia, I found myself where? In that meeting because I'm trying to be where this hole is. Okay?

Dialogues With Jagero: So, I went to that church and I heard a punitive preach there. What was the guy's name? A Nigerian guy or Ghanaian. And he preached nonsense. My mind, logically, was cut off. So, I was like, fuck it. I'm not going to do that. I'm not feeling this story. Get the fuck out. Pastor Suna.

Dialogues With Jagero: You church guys would know him. Pastor Suna, you know, he came out and he was like, he came out and he was going to shoot his own man with a drum. Wait, I'll fire you.

Dialogues With Jagero: My ego will not allow to be here. So, I left.

Dialogues With Jagero: When I left, I remember the first call that I made and I was, I couldn't wait to make that call was to my mother.

Dialogues With Jagero: I remember that till today because it is my

Dialogues With Jagero: weakness.

Dialogues With Jagero: So, I called my mother and I called my mom. Mom, you'll never believe what happened. I went to this.

Dialogues With Jagero: Imagine, a grown -ass man is from blasting.

Dialogues With Jagero: I'm just ejaculated in that woman who was there. And here I am calling my mother. About what?

Dialogues With Jagero: What's this connection?

Dialogues With Jagero: This is somebody's wife.

Dialogues With Jagero: What's this connection

Dialogues With Jagero: that her son has with the mother?

Dialogues With Jagero: It is, it is almost,

Dialogues With Jagero: how do you say it?

Dialogues With Jagero: It should be forbidden. The fathers who saw this early, they would forbid it. They would forbid the closeness of the son and the mother. You know that.

Dialogues With Jagero: They would see it and they say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Come on, is it what you're doing?

Unknown: Yeah,

Dialogues With Jagero: because what are you doing? This closeness between you and your mom needs to be cut. That's what circumcision was supposed to be.

Dialogues With Jagero: But now it is unnecessary because the woman is the one who's taking the boy to get circumcised. So, where is the separation happening?

Dialogues With Jagero: He's circumcised and he's brought back into the house to be dominated again by the same woman.

Dialogues With Jagero: She's ordering him around.

Dialogues With Jagero: Finish him. Circumcise him and then order him around. Tell me, by the time she's releasing that boy into the public,

Dialogues With Jagero: what size of canoes are we getting out here?

Dialogues With Jagero: Because in the olden times, circumcision was separating you from your mama.

Andrew Kibe: Was that so?

Dialogues With Jagero: Yes.

Dialogues With Jagero: That's why you were never supposed to go back in the kitchen. Your mom is not supposed to, to back orders at you anymore. You're a man. Women are not allowed to back orders at men. So your mom had to talk to you the way she talked to your father. Because if she doesn't, then you can go to your dad and tell him, hey, can you straighten out your bitch?

Dialogues With Jagero: Because now we're men.

Dialogues With Jagero: So your mom cannot, because she's not my woman.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. Great. My other interview is in seven minutes.

Dialogues With Jagero: We're done. I don't even think you have more wine.

Andrew Kibe: Yeah. But, you have to tell people where you are getting this book.

Dialogues With Jagero: If you go to the back of the book,

Dialogues With Jagero: you'll see androkibe.shop.

Andrew Kibe: You're not selling at Nuria?

Dialogues With Jagero: I am.

Andrew Kibe: Okay, good.

Dialogues With Jagero: They took enough copies.

Dialogues With Jagero: I was very impressed. Androkibe

Andrew Kibe: is not your role model.

Dialogues With Jagero: No.

Andrew Kibe: It's your wake -up call. A no -holds -barred voice of reason in a world of weak men and noisy women. Kibi has built a loyal global following over 2.5 million truth -seeking men who have had enough of the suckers. Wow. From Broke Radio to Kibi's Dane to his viral masterclass, The 28 -Week Journey into Manhood.

Dialogues With Jagero: Thank you. You sound like... Kibi

Andrew Kibe: is dismantling the lies one episode, one chapter, and one Marceline Brebath at a time.

Dialogues With Jagero: So,

Andrew Kibe: I want to sign this one for you. Yes, please. Please sign it for me.

Andrew Kibe: Sign it for me. Do you take crypto?

Andrew Kibe: I take Kibi coins.

Dialogues With Jagero: Zagero.

Unknown: I

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: love this. I

Andrew Kibe: never eat where you shit.

Dialogues With Jagero: Very nice.

Andrew Kibe: Very, very nice. Very

Dialogues With Jagero: nice. It was

Andrew Kibe: a pleasure doing ministry with you.

Dialogues With Jagero: Yes, sir.

Andrew Kibe: Thank you for always being good vibes. We're waiting on this side of freedom for you.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: That's a swipe one.

Dialogues With Jagero: We're waiting on this side.

Would Vanish
Andrew Kibe: Stupid.

Dialogues With Jagero: I mean, it's going to happen. And I resist.

Dialogues With Jagero: But it's going to happen, my guy. It's

Andrew Kibe: always a

Dialogues With Jagero: pleasure, bro. But you're not

Andrew Kibe: telling us where we are getting the book.

Dialogues With Jagero: So, I told you, read at the back. Andrewkibe.shop Andrewkibe.shop And

Andrew Kibe: where else?

Dialogues With Jagero: Nuri have taken.

Dialogues With Jagero: There are a couple of guys who have taken, but...

Andrew Kibe: And the audio is still there at...

Dialogues With Jagero: Andrewkibe.shop Andrewkibe.shop has everything.

Andrew Kibe: Okay. I want to check that website right now.

Unknown: Andrewkibe

Andrew Kibe: .shop Very entrepreneurial, man.

Andrew Kibe: You went back to YouTube. For a short while.

Dialogues With Jagero: Yeah,

Dialogues With Jagero: none of those motherfuckers kicked me out again.

Dialogues With Jagero: Like insisting on a woman who doesn't want you. Mmm.

Andrew Kibe: Oh, this website is looking beautiful.

Dialogues With Jagero: Very nice. And we're still working on it. Yes. So, we're updating it daily.

Dialogues With Jagero: I got a very nice team.

Andrew Kibe: Nice team.

Dialogues With Jagero: Derek and Leslie. Very nice.

Andrew Kibe: Okay. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you very much.

Dialogues With Jagero: Appreciate it. Your dojo tomorrow?

Andrew Kibe: I asked if you take... No,

Dialogues With Jagero: tomorrow. Well, we won't come No, no. They wearBeautiful.

Andrew Kibe: 장관

Dialogues With Jagero: Awaiting Is this my note? Your

Andrew Kibe: note

Dialogues With Jagero: ,should I give it to you? I can't figure out I adore you. I will give it to you Sir,

Andrew Kibe: we've decided I

Dialogues With Jagero: thank you for this call

Andrew Kibe: Oh man, You've been taken Put it in the bag and it's the card of my name

Dialogues With Jagero: There's a mark on it Talk

Andrew Kibe: about a savory Bez

Andrew Kibe: The card Yeah, wow!ов

Dialogues With Jagero: 0712915936

Andrew Kibe: The

Dialogues With Jagero: only calls I receive are in Mpesa Andrew

Andrew Kibe: Boro

Andrew Kibe: Boro

Dialogues With Jagero: is my dad's name I

Andrew Kibe: have used you for $1,500 The other one is in Matanga I

Dialogues With Jagero: won't use it for anything In Matanga is

Andrew Kibe: fine

Dialogues With Jagero: Thank you, Jageru. I appreciate it

Andrew Kibe: It was always a pleasure I have a

Dialogues With Jagero: lot of book signings to go do right now You

Andrew Kibe: have a lot of book signings to do? Yeah,

Dialogues With Jagero: you know people are asking for the autograph

Dialogues With Jagero: You

Andrew Kibe: will get it from me

Dialogues With Jagero: Ciao
