"Rising From Failure - Eddy Kimani"
Stats: Views: 253,918; Likes: 4,133; Comments: 350.
Speaker: Engage Talk

Unknown: It

Engage Talk: was about 8.30 a.m. thereabouts.

Engage Talk: I got a weird taste in my mouth. It was metallic.

Engage Talk: Shortly after investigating with my tongue,

Engage Talk: I realized that my left side of my face was getting numb.

Engage Talk: Before I could find out what was going on, my left eye couldn't blink normally.

Engage Talk: And in quick thought, I remembered the colleague seated with me in this meeting we were in was a doctor, and I told him what I was going through.

Engage Talk: And he immediately told me, leave this meeting and go to the hospital and get checked,

Engage Talk: which I did with speed.

Engage Talk: I was checked. My blood pressure was through the roof. I got medicine, but it was not clear yet what was going on.

Engage Talk: So I thought of getting a second opinion, and I came to Nairobi.

Engage Talk: In Nairobi, the neurologist did a few tests, and he told me, what I was suffering from. Bell's palsy. I was shell -shocked. Many thoughts ran through my mind. I did not know what was going on.

Engage Talk: Is this the moment that I would implode from within?

Engage Talk: Is this what my life had become?

Engage Talk: This is my story.

Engage Talk: For more than 15 years, I'd enjoyed a good run in my media career.

Engage Talk: I had it all, fame, celebrity status, and a career that I had dreamt of. And I lived it. To be on TV, to be on stage, be in films. And I did it all.

Engage Talk: And in the same 15 years, I met my lovely wife, Nyambura, and God blessed us with two sons, Tendai and Kiran. I appeared in numerous TV commercials, went abroad to shoot them,

Engage Talk: featured in films, even won an Academy Award.

Engage Talk: I'm not sure if you had anything to do with that. In

Engage Talk: 2014, I got an opportunity to go and work in public service. I was appointed as the director of communications at the county government of Nakuru.

Engage Talk: Taking it up meant moving back to a county that I was born and raised in. For me, it was an honor, an opportunity to play a role in shaping Nakuru's story in the era of devolution.

Engage Talk: However, it also meant leaving behind everything. It meant dropping everything that had defined me for such a long time.

Engage Talk: Unfortunately, I did not move with my family, so it ended up being a long -distance relationship.

Engage Talk: Now, I had to supplement my salary, which I dipped after taking the county job. And like many other men would have done, I ventured into business.

Engage Talk: I ended up committing my full salary to service these loans, but the hole got even deeper. Everything I had planned to do at that time collapsed, face -flat.

Engage Talk: So one thing led to another.

Engage Talk: I betrayed my marriage.

Engage Talk: I separated from my wife due to infidelity.

Engage Talk: Missed my children.

Engage Talk: And this killed me every single day and night.

Engage Talk: And I'm still trying to make up for that. Things led to other things, making the wrong choices, making bad decisions, and the consequences were dire.

Engage Talk: With no proper income coming through,

Engage Talk: I was kicked out of my rented house twice

Engage Talk: and got auctioned once.

Engage Talk: My friend Alan put me up the two times,

Engage Talk: and I had to do something unthinkable. At 39 years of age,

Engage Talk: I went back home, knocked on the door, and I told my mom I failed. It was extremely painful.

Engage Talk: On the surface, I kept a straight face, but deep down, I was burning.

Engage Talk: And several times, I wanted to let go.

Engage Talk: My mom was my beacon of light through these rough waters that I'd thrown myself into.

Engage Talk: She was there for me. Some of my friends walked away into the horizon. They went. I came to terms with that. But I need to appreciate and acknowledge friends and strangers who stood by me, held my hand, and supported me in these dark moments. So last year, 2017, my run at the county government came to a close.

Engage Talk: I didn't have a family to go to. My marriage was collapsing at the verge of a divorce.

Engage Talk: So I decided to pack my little bag and go to the coast.

Engage Talk: Easy escape, eh?

Engage Talk: Thanks to some short -term gigs here and there, I had to even sell some of my personal items just to get by. I

Engage Talk: ended up in Ukunda. More specifically, Diani. And you know how that story goes, eh?

Engage Talk: Kuingia ni arusi, kutoka ni?

Engage Talk: Right.

Engage Talk: So one morning, I walked into a bakery,

Engage Talk: and I sat down, and this guy behind me greeted me, and he told me his name was Peter, and he introduced himself as the owner of the bakery. He recognized me as that guy of TV. Ah, weweni uleja mwa TV, eh?

Engage Talk: I wanted to put out the... I wanted the earth to open. I fall in, and... This was my Damascus moment.

Engage Talk: But that time, I'd spent almost four hours conversing with Peter, and he went on his knees and prayed for me, something that shocked me. He told me I needed to go back home.

Engage Talk: I need to go back to my family. He pushed me every day as we became friends. But unfortunately, the demons kept on winning this battle all through.

Engage Talk: One day, I get a call from my wife, Nyambura.

Engage Talk: She tells me to go to Nairobi and attend a school meeting for our firstborn son. And we had not been talking for a long time.

Engage Talk: First, there was apprehension. There was bitterness,

Engage Talk: selfishness in me.

Engage Talk: Peter urged me to go. We prayed about it. And that was the last day I called Okunda home.

Engage Talk: Now, when I got to Nairobi, this was the tail end of a vicious cycle that I'd gone through. The pain, the heart that I'd caused, nothing mattered anymore but my children, my wife, my family, and putting my life back in order again. It was not easy.

Engage Talk: Reconciliation between me and my wife was a work in progress.

Engage Talk: And I must say, we are healing in a manner that I can't really describe. We've had many uncomfortable moments together through this reconciliation period, but we've worked on it, and we are still working on it every day.

Engage Talk: This,

Engage Talk: my children, had to learn how to love them again, be curious about them, and understand that it's me they need more and not the other way around.

Engage Talk: My fellow men, I've learned many priceless lessons in this period, and I'd like to share it with you here tonight.

Engage Talk: Because at the end of it all, when all is said and done,

Engage Talk: we must recognize that being perfect is a fairy tale.

Engage Talk: Failure, scarcity, and shortcomings are all part of being a man, a father, a husband.

Engage Talk: Openness, honesty, communication are key to your relationship with your partners. But sometimes, it can be hard.

Engage Talk: After all is said and done,

Engage Talk: self -pity is our number one enemy because it attracts to you helpless self -indulgence, and if that happens, focus on other things. Beware of excessive self -absorption and self -pity that robs us men

Engage Talk: the exercise of love, care, and many other things.

Engage Talk: After all is said and done, get close to your children. You don't have to feel strong and courageous to do this. Children need their fathers regardless

Engage Talk: what dad is going through inside.

Engage Talk: One of the gifts I'd like to give to my children is to demonstrate to them that you can recover from failure and keep moving.

Engage Talk: By the way, this is to everyone here, be grateful that you don't look like the problems and the challenges that we go through.

Engage Talk: I'm not proud of what I've done, but I'm proud of what I've become, and I can be through the lessons that I've learned. There is more to you than your temporary setbacks. You've got what it takes.

Engage Talk: Thank you.
